Overview
Limitless Moon is a single-player browser-based video game. It's a new genre somewhat related to turn-based roguelikes. The game consists of expeditions, which are 5-60 minute runs. 

Narrative context
Scifi adventure with aliens, combat, exploration, base building, & NPC diplomacy. You play as a faction of humans or aliens pursuing science & mischief on wild, unexplored space opera planets.

Glossary
- Planet - Each expedition takes place on 1 planet. Each planet is essentially its own variant of the game. A player might return to the same planet many times, customizing it, or try many new planets once, looking for fun new variety. Narratively, a 'planet' really means a volume of space a few light-seconds across, which usually includes a planet & may also include moons, space stations, etc.
    Each planet contains:
    - 2+ factions
    - Generators for hexes, creatures, & items

- Faction - A organization of allied & thematically unified creatures. Each faction is confined to 1 planet (like everything is). When you start a game, you choose which of the planet's factions to play as, or choose Random for a small bonus. 
Narratively, a faction is around 3-300 people (only around 10 with names & faces), plus several constraints to keep the theme strong. It might be a military company, a RPG party, a kingdom of crab-people, etc.
    Each faction has:
    - A start state. This defines what creatures, place, and resources you start with when you play as this faction. The start state can specify both concrete and randomized entries - often you will start as a randomized protagonist.
    - 1+ Kinds
    - 1+ mandatory Traits
    - 1+ mandatory Tags
    - (optional) Min or Max limits on a given property (such as Speed) of its creatures
    - 1-10 Groups

- Creature - Any human, alien, or robot that can take actions. 

- Group - A gathering of homogenous Creatures. Only the leader has a personality.

- Protagonist - The player is assigned 1 creature at the start of each expedition. If they die, the expedition ends in a early failure. (Note that getting KOed can lead to recovery, not always death.) Or they might be captured & the player gives up on rescue.
When the player zooms in on the protagonist's hex, they see all non-hidden contents of that hex. Other hexes display less info, and it's marked as old or vague. 
The player can communicate by radio with all faction members, but does not have perfect access to their senses, and they might not obey all requests.

- Kind - A template or category of creature, such as Robocrab or Archaeologist. Every Creature belongs to a Kind, but it may have some uniqueness from the items it possesses.

- Trait - A special rule or modifier that a Kind can have, such as Amphibious.

- Place - A hexagonal area 10km across. Part of a procedurally generated hex grid.


Game loop
From the main menu, the player has a list of all planets they have ever played, plus a New Planet option. 
They may play as any of that planet's factions, or randomize which one.
Expedition gameplay is inspired by the hexcrawl TTRPG genre.
The game has 2 main topics, hexcrawl and customization. 
You can customize your items, kinds, places, and your faction. 
You have indirect control over your faction. If your orders don't benefit them, it will drain their patience. Then they might choose their own actions.
Even your protagonist can have mental limitations that make them act temporarily outside your control.
(This indirect control constraint helps the faction perform well in NPC mode.)
Food and water and other supplies are assumed to be plentiful, but ammo can run out after a few shootouts. 

Data model
Planet
Faction
Kind
Group
Item
Place 
...


UI

Customize screens
Item
Kind
Faction 

Place screen
Map screen
Main menu 


Implementation Plan:

UI Prototype

Data Model vertical slice
Knife (item)
Soldier (kind)
Hills (place)
Planet

Loading a start state & resolving its random values 

...
