Your mind ts software. Program it.
Your body Its a shell. Change it.
Death is a disease. Cure it.
Extinction is approaching. Fight it.


Origins Award: Best Roleplaying Game ¢ ENnie Award: Best Writing (Gold), Best Cover, Best Product (Silver)


- C= ie
= I “4
= a


.





ie s _ — i a
tf a es
f = hh
ip . a r P -——


=
ae


| oS


Eclipse Phase created by Posthuman Studios


Eclipse Phase is a trademark of Posthuman Studios LLC. Some content licensed under a Creative Commons License (BY-NC-SA); Some Rights Reserved. © 2009-2014














SYNOPSIS

















ELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


RUNNING THE GAME


REFERENCE





LACK 6
ENTER
THE SINGULARITY ... 16
STARTING OUT 18
What Is A Roleplaying Game? 18
What is Transhumanism? 18
Post-apocalyptic, Conspiracy, and
Horror Themes 19
But How Do You Actually Play? 20
What Do Players Do? BD
Where Does It Take Place? 24
Ego vs. Morph 24
Where To Go From Here? 24
TERMINOLOGY 25
Welcome to Firewall 28
What You Really Need to Know 29
A TIME OF ECLIPSE 30
A PEOPLE'S HISTORY OF AN
UNFORTUNATE UNIVERSE 32
Eclipse Phase Timeline a7
THE SOLAR SYSTEM
AFTER THE FALL 38
TRANSHUMANITY 38
Inequality 38
Clades and Separation 39
First Contact: The Factors 40
CULTURE AND SOCIETY 41
The Longing For Earth 41
Nostalgia Jewelry 41
Fear and Paranoia 42
An Exsurgent Threat? 42
Real and Social Distance 43
The Rise of Cultural Regions a
Cultural Experimentation 44
Gender, Sexuality, and Relationships 45
The Diversity of Habitats 45
TECHNOLOGY 46
Living With Infotech 46
Opening Pandora’s Gate 46
Going Beyond the Known 47
Muses 47
Attitudes Toward AGIs 48
Attitudes Towards Mental Alterations 48
Travel 48
Privacy 49
Low-Tech Existence 50
Life, Death, and Morphs 50
Entertainment and Media Sl
Lost Lore 51
Metacelebrities 52
Popular Types of Entertainment 52
POLITICS AND POWER 55
The Inner System sD
The Outer System oe,
KEEPING THE PEACE 58
Law Enforcement 5g
Punishment 60
THE ECONOMY 61
The Old Economy 61
The Transitional Economy 62
The New Economy 62
Restricting Dangerous Technologies 63
Irreproducible Goods 64
HABITATS 66
Planetary Settlements 66
Space Habitats 67
A Diversity of Floating Worlds 68
The Largest Habitats 68
Microgravity Habitats 68
Private Habitats 69


FACTIONS 70
The Hypercorps 70
Psiclone 70
War Crimes 71
Union Busting Te:
Political Blocs 74
Inner System Politics 7S
Autonomist Alliance 76
Call for Solidarity Uh
Socio-Political Movements Te
Neo-Primitivists 80
Out’sters 80
Sybils 81
Religious Groups 82
Criminal Factions 83
Firewall 84
Project Ozma 85

SYSTEM GAZETEER 86
Sol (The Sun) 86
A Quick Primer On

Transhuman Habitats 86
Solar System Map 87
Vulcanoids 88
Mercury 88
Venus 89
Earth 90
Venusian Rumors 90
Luna ot
TILION’s Jupiter Brain 2
Mars 93
Martian Manhunt 95
Martian Trojans 96
Asteroid Belt 96
Jupiter vee
Europa oy)
Ganymede and Callisto 99
The Trojans (Jovian Trojan

and Greek Asteroids) 100
Saturn 102
Gate Expedition Report 901127 102
Titan 106
Uranus NO.
Neptune 108
The Edge of the System 109
Extrasolar Systems 109
Analysis: Myst Trees ot

GAME MECHANICS 112
The Ultimate Rule 114
Dice 114
A Note on Terminology and Gender 114
Making Tests ja)
Target Numbers 105
When to Make Tests ES
Difficulty and Modifiers HESS
Criticals: Rolling Doubles 116
Defaulting: Untrained Skill Use 116
Simplifying Modifiers 116
Narrative Modifiers 116
Teamwork 17

TYPES OF TESTS 117
Success Tests ER,
Opposed Tests 119

TIME AND ACTIONS 119
Action Turns lat
Types of Actions ja)

DEFINING YOUR CHARACTER 120
Concept 120
Motivations 120
Ego vs. Morph LBA
Character Stats iBall
Character Skills t22,
Character Traits 123
Character Morph 123


THINGS CHARACTERS USE
Identity
Social Networks
Cred
Rep
Gear
Implants
Psi
Game Rules Summary


124
124
124
125
125
5
126
126
127


CHARACTER CREATION AND


ADVANCEMENT
CHARACTER GENERATION


Character Concept

Choose Background
Choose Faction

Spend Free Points

Spend Customization Points
Purchase Gear

Choose Motivations

Final Touches

Example Motivations


STARTING MORPHS
Biomorphs
Pods
Synthetic Morphs
Infomorphs


TRAITS


Positive Traits
Negative Traits


CHARACTER ADVANCEMENT
Changing Motivation
Switching Morphs
Improving Aptitudes
Improving Skills
Specializations
Improving Moxie
Gaining/Losing Traits
Improving Rep
Making Credit
Improving Psi


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


SKILLS OVERVIEW
Core Skills: Aptitudes
Learned Skills
Specializations


USING SKILLS


Defaulting
Complementary Skills
Skill Ranges


APTITUDES
Aptitude-Only Tests
Aptitude Comparison:
Flats vs. Splicers and Exalts


COMPLETE SKILL LIST
Academics: [Field]
Animal Handling
Art: [Field]
Beam Weapons
Blades
Climbing
Clubs
Control
Deception
Demolitions
Disguise
Exotic Melee Weapon: [Field]
Exotic Ranged Weapon: [Field]
Flight
Fray
Free Fall


128


130
130
131
iy
134
135
ihsy7/
138
138
138


139
139
142
143
145


145
145
148


152
lowe
N52
isy
152
153
153
153
153
158
158


154


170


172
172
172
173


173
173
173
174


174
174


174


176
176
177,
177
177,
177,
177
178
178
178
178
178
178
178
178
178
7?















A EE SS a
= EEE —— —— Sy a





2 |








Freerunning P79 Gravity 198 ISLANDS IN THE NET 242
Gunnery 179 Grenades and Seekers 199 D
arkcasts 243
Hardware: [Field] 179 Hostile Environments 200 MESH ABUSES 343
Impersonation 180 Improvised Weapons 202
Infiltration 180 Knockdown/Knockback 202 Hackers 243
Infosec 180 Melee and Thrown Damage Bonus 202 Malware 244
Interest: [Field] 180 Multiple Targets 202 Als AND INFOLIFE 244
Interfacing 180 Objects and Structures 202 Als 244
Intimidation 180 Range 203 Muses JEAN
Investigation 180 Reach 2.04 AGIs 244
Kinesics 181 Scatter 204 What Your Muse Can Do For You’ 244
Kinetic Weapons 181 Shock Attacks 204 Seed Al 245
Language: [Field] 181 Subdual 204 Transhuman Infomorphs HAS
Languages In Eclipse Phase 181 Suppressive Fire 204 Mesh Interface 245
Medicine: [Field] 182 Surprise 204 Non-standard Als and AGIs 2D
Navigation 182 Tactical Networks 205 Mesh ID 246
Networking: [Field] 182 Touch-only Attack 206 Accounts and Access Privileges 246
Palming 132 Two-Handed Weapons 206 Mesh Gear Quality 247
Perception 182 Wielding Two or More Weapons 206 Computer Capabilities 247
Persuasion 183 PHYSICAL HEALTH 206 Software Za)
Pilot: [Field] 183 Damage Points 206 Elite Exploits 247
Profession: [Field] 183 Damage Types 206 Traffic Filters and Mist 248
Programming 183 Durability and Health 207 Slaving Devices 248
Protocol 183 Damage Value 207 Issuing Commands 248
Psi Assault 184 Wounde DOT Distance Lag 248 ~~
Psychosurgery 184 ean 207 Accessing Multiple Devices 249 ~
Research 184 EATING AND REPAIR 908 ONLINE RESEARCH 249 \
Scrounging 184 Biomorph Healing 208 Search Challenges 249 “
se Medes - Synthmorph and Object Repair 208 an ae aa oS
ense
Spray Weapons 184 MENTAL HEALTH 209 Resin Sea p25) ~N
Swimming 184 ae ne, oe a Hidden Data 251 \
ucidi ‘
Throwing Weapons Se Lice are 599 SCANNING, TRACKING, \
Unarmed Combat les AND MONITORING 251
SPECIAL SKILLS 185008 ee a oer 251
Derangements 210 at rie Aes
ACTION AND COMBAT 187 Disorders 211 Cees eee
ACTION TURNS 188 Cree ec renee 114 Digital Activity Tracking 252.
Sniffing 252
@ os eae ene 188 Willpower Stress Tests 214
OF Hardening 214. PRIVACY ANDANONYMIZATION 252
Step 2: Begin First Action Phase 188 Pres 459
Step 3: Declare and Resolve Actions 188 Mental Healing and Psychotherapy 215 anon eee 452
Step 4: Rotate and Repeat 188 MIND HACKS 216 MESH SECURITY 353

1 Wee 188 ay a Authentication 253
Initiative Order 189 The Nature of Psi 218 Firewalls 453
Speed 189 /Ether Jabber: Asyncs 219 yee
Delaye PAcuon: 189 psy 320 Active Monitoring 253

ACTIONS Tec Weneies 77 a)

sing Psi
Automatic Actions 190 Psi-Chi Sleights 223 Pee see an
Quick Actions 190) Psi-Gamma Sleights 226 @ reumventine Auientenien 455
cose: ene 190 PSYCHOSURGERY 229 Intrusion Tests 255
Task Actions 190 The Process of Psychosurgery ple laccucden statis 156
~Y MOVEMENT 190 The Human Cognome Project 227 Changing Status 57
ie Movement Rates 191 Psychosurgery Mechanics 230 Brute-Force Hacking 257
COMBAT 191 Roleplaying Mind Edits 23)
oe Proced 544 INTRUSION
Se Combat ; i = ail ae COUNTERMEASURES 257
cma ae SUTIN AT, Security Alerts 257,

ACTION AND COMBAT THE MESH 234 Passive Countermeasures 257, ~
COMPLICATIONS 193 MESH CAPABILITIES 236 Active Countermeasures 258 —
Aimed Shots ) 13 Meshing Technologies 137 Joint Hacking/Securing 258 Lda!
Ammunition and Reloading 193 Solarchive Search: Ecto(-Link) 237. SUBVERSION 259 =
Area Effect Weapons 193 Legacy of the TITANs 237 Augmented Reality Illusions 259 —
ie x! me ; Information Overload 238 Backdoors 260 ¢_)

f :
a eeta INTERFACING: AR, VR, AND XP 239 =— Crashing Software 260
Beam Weapons 194 Binaeceel ar 260 —s
Hoary Wi a Augmented Reality 239 iminating Intrusion Traces SS
Information at your Fingertips 239 Hacking VPNs 260
Bots, Synthmorphs, and Vehicles 195 Geen 260 Ludenl
Called Shots 197 ABther Jabber aoe Le ool
Chae 197 Virtual Reality 240 CYBERBRAIN HACKING 261 oO}
patie ae. 197 Experience Playback 241 Entrapment 261 — i
palling 197. MESH USES 241 Memory Hacking 261 —
Pie 198 Personal Area Networks 241 Puppeteering 261
Firing Modes and Rate of Fire 198 Virtual Private Networks 241 Sconenine ae
Priiibetense 198 Social Networks 242 Shutdown . 262
Nichia @freee 942 Terminate Cortical Stack Feed 262.
3














SYNOPSIS

















ELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SCHES


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


RUNNING THE GAME


REFERENCE





RADIO JAMMING


Jamming Radar


SIMULSPACES


Simulmorphs

Immersion

External Mesh Interaction
Simulspace Rules

Domain Rules

Cheating

Hacking Simulspaces


Als AND MUSES
AI Limitations
Roleplaying Muses
Commanding AIs

AGIs AND INFOMORPHS
Software Minds
AGI Characters
Infomorphs As Muses


ACCELERATED FUTURE
BACKUPS AND UPLOADING


Cortical Stack Backups
Uploading

Backup Insurance
Backup Complications


RESLEEVING


Resleeving Biomorphs and Pods


Resleeving Synthmorphs
Resleeving Costs
Integration

Alienation

Continuity Test
Infomorph Resleeving


FORKING AND MERGING
Alpha Forks
Beta Forks
Delta Forks
Gamma Forks
Neural Pruning
Handling Forks
Merging

EGOCASTING
Egocaster Security
Darkcasting

MORPH BROKERAGE
Morph Availability
Morph Acquisition
Renting Morphs


Custom-Grown or -Designed Morphs


IDENTITY
Ego ID
Identity Verification
Circumventing ID Checks


LIFE IN SPACE
Space Habitats
Immigration and Customs
Space Travel


NANOFABRICATION


Raw Materials

Blueprints

Time

The Programming Test
REPUTATION AND SOCIAL

NETWORKS


Social Networks
Reputation

Using Networks and Rep
Favors

Reputation and Identity


SECURITY


Access Control
Detection and Surveillance
Active Countermeasures


GEAR 294


EQUIPMENT RULES 296
Acquiring Gear 296
Gear Modifiers 296
Design and Fashion 227,

MESHED GEAR 299
Radio and Sensor Ranges 299
Power AEE)


PERSONAL AUGMENTATION 300


Standard Augmentations 300
Bioware 301
Using Enhanced Senses 302
Cyberware 306
Synthmorphs and Bioware 306
Nanoware 308
Cosmetic Mods 309
Robotic Enhancements 310
ARMOR 312
Armor Mods 343
COMMUNICATIONS 313
Neutrino Communicators 314
Quantum Farcasters 314


Quantum Entangled Communication


el)


COVERT AND ESPIONAGE TECH 315


Bugs and Surveillance 315
DRUGS, CHEMICALS,
AND TOXINS 317
Substance Rules B17
Drugs 318
Nanodrugs 321
Other Nanodrugs 321
Sample Petals 322
Narcoalgorithms 523
Chemicals 323
Toxins B22
Nanotoxins 324
Pathogens 324
Psi Drugs 325
EVERYDAY TECHNOLOGY 325
NANOTECHNOLOGY 326
Basic Nanotechnology 326
Advanced Nanotechnology 328
PETS 330
SCAVENGER TECH 330
SERVICES 330
SOFTWARE 331
Programs Bol
Als and Muses Boll
Scorchers oe
Skillsofts 332
SURVIVAL GEAR 332
Vacuum Suits Boe
WEAPONS 334
Melee Weapons 334
Kinetic Weapons 335


Brand Name Weapons and Combined


Arms 336
Beam Weapons 338
Seekers 339
Grenades and Seekers 340
Spray Weapons 341
Exotic Ranged Weapons 342
Weapon Accessories 342

ROBOTS AND VEHICLES 343
Aircraft 343
Exoskeletons 343
Groundcraft 344
Personal Vehicles 345
Robots 345
Spacecraft 346


GAME INFORMATION
SECRETS THAT MATTER


Extraterrestrial Intelligences
Spoiler Alert

The First Seed Als

The ETI Agenda

The True History of the TITANs
Infection

The Fall

After The Fall


FIREWALL


History

Organization

Optional Rule: i-REP

Cliques

Methods

What Help Can a Sentinel Expect?
Long-term Strategies and Goals
Firewall and Other Organizations


THE ETI
Handling Aliens


EXHUMANS


Neurodes
Predators


THE EXSURGENT VIRUS
Biological Nanovirus
Digital Virus
Nanoplague
Basilisk Hacks
Exsurgent Strains
Using the Exsurgent Virus
Roleplaying Exsurgents
Exsurgents
Exsurgent Psi
Exsurgent Psi-Gamma Sleights
Exsurgent Psi-Epsilon Sleights


THE FACTORS


Origin and Evolution
Xenobiology
Exosociology

Factor Motivations
The Factors in Game
Factor Phenotypes
Roleplaying Factors


THE IKTOMI


THE PANDORA GATES
The Wormhole
Operations
Gatecrashing
Anomalies


PROJECT OZMA
Methods
Project Ozma and Firewall
Project Ozma Rumors


PROMETHEANS


THE TITANS AND THEIR LEGACY
Deadly Machines
Self-replicating Nanoswarms
Nanoviruses


GAMEMASTERING
AND ADMINISTRATION
Awarding Rez Points
Reputation Gain and Loss
Backups, Record-Keeping,

and Save Points

Gamemastering Practicalities
NPCs and Moxie


TABLES
REFERENCES
INDEX

CHARACTER SHEET


350


352
357
a2
353
353
354
354
354
355


356
356
356
a7
a
360
360
361
361


361
361


362
362
362


362
363
364
364
365
366
368
369
369
371,
7A
S71


372
32
378
374
375
as
376
376

37]

377
378
378
378
72

379
380
380
380

381

381
382
383
384


384
384
384


385
386
386


390
394
395
399














Original Concept and Design: Rob Boyle, Brian Cross

Writing and Design: Lars Blumenstein, Rob Boyle, Brian
Cross, Jack Graham, John Snead

Additional Writing: Bruce Baugh, Randall N. Bills,
Davidson Cole, Tobias Wolter

Editing: Rob Boyle, Jason Hardy, Michelle Lyons

Development: Rob Boyle

Line Developer: Rob Boyle 7

Art Direction: Randall N. Bills, Rob Boyle,
Brent Evans, Mike Vaillancourt

Cover Art: Stephan Martiniere

Interior Art: Justin Albers, Rich Anderson, Adam Bain,
Davi Blight, Leanne Buckley, Robin Chyo, Daniel
Clarke, Paul Davies, Julie Dillon, Nathan Geppert,
Zachary Graves, Tariq Hassan, Thomas Jung,
Sergey Kondratovich, Mark Molnar, Ben Newman,
Justin Oaksford, Efrem Palacios, Sacha-Mikhail
Roberts, Silver Saaramael, James Wolf Strehle, Daniel
Stultz, Viktor Titov, Alexandre Tuis, Stan VonMedvey,
Bruno Werneck, and Dr. CM Wong (Opus Artz Studio)

Graphic Design and Layout: Adam Jury, Mike Vaillancourt

Faction Logos: Michaela Eaves, Jack Graham,
Hal Mangold, Adam Jury

Indexing: Rita Tatum

Additional Advice and Input: Robert Derie, Adam Jury,
Sally Kats, Christian Lonsing, Aaron Pavao,
Andrew Peregrine, Kelly Ramsey, Malcolm Shepard,
Marc Szodruch

Science Advice: Brian Graham, Matthew Hare,
Ben Hyink, Mike Miller

Playtesting and Proofreading:
Chris Adkins, Joe Altepeter, Sean Beeb, Laura Bienz,
Jérémie Bouillon, Echo Boyle, Berianne Bramman,
Chuck Burhanna, C. Byrne, Lars Nesbye Christensen,
Nathaniel Dean, Didier Escodemaison, Joe Firrantello,
Nik Gianozakos, Gabriel Glachant, Sven Gorny,
Bjorn Gramatke, Aaron Grossman, Neil Hamre,
Eirik Bull-Hansen, Matthew Hare, Kristen Hartmann,
Karl Hauber, Ken Horner, Dominique Immora,
Ishindri, Stephen Jarjoura, Lorien Jasny, Evan Jeffrey,
Ryan Jeffrey, Jan-Hendrik Kalusche, Austin Karpola,
Robert Kyle, Christopher Lavery, Tony Lee,
Heather Lozier, Gianmarco Maggio, Jason Martin,
Jurgen Mayer, Robert McCuaig, Darlene Morgan,
Trey Palmer, Matt Phillips, Aaron Pollyea,
Melissa Rapp, Jan Ruther, Bjorn Schmidt,
Michael Schulz, Martin Swan, Brandie Tarvin,
Seb Tivig, Kevin Tyska, Liam Ward, Charles Wilson,
William Wilson, Kevin Wortman, plus everyone who
participated in a game at Gen Con 2008 or
contributed errata to our online forums.

Musical Inspiration: Geomatic (Blue Beam),
Memmaker (How to Enlist in a Robot Uprising),
Monstrum Sepsis (Movement)





Dedication: This book is dedicated first and foremost to
the people who made Eclipse Phase happen, from ev-
eryone who contributed time, sweat, ideas, and money
into it to everyone who picks it up, reads it, and plays
it. This game is by you and for you. Secondly it’s dedi-
cated to my grandmother and to Andrea, both impor-
tant people in my life who died while I was working on
this book and its themes of defeating death. I sincerely
hope that one day such tragic losses are avoided. Third,
this book is dedicated to my son Echo, my entertaining
working companion on this project. Finally this book
is dedicated to those visionaries, especially the anar-
chists and transhumanists, who are working to bring
about a fantastic future, starting now. —Rob Boyle


DUR RESOURCES


http://eclipsephase.com

—Eclipse Phase website, blog, and forum
http://del.icio.us/infomorph

—Eclipse Phase-related news and links
http://posthumanstudios.com

—Posthuman Studios website


Fourth Printing (second corrected printing),
by Posthuman Studios
contact us at info@posthumanstudios.com
or via http://eclipsephase.com
or search your favorite social network for:
“Eclipse Phase” or “Posthuman Studios”


Posthuman Studios is:
Rob Boyle, Brian Cross, Jack Graham, and Adam Jury


Creative Commons License; Some Rights Reserved.





This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-
Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported License.

To view a copy of this license, visit:
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/

or send a letter to: Creative Commons, 171 Second Street,
Suite 300, San Francisco, California, 94105, USA.


What this means is that you are free to copy, share, and
remix the text and artwork within this book under the fol-
lowing conditions:

1) you do so only for noncommercial purposes;

2) you attribute Posthuman Studios;

3) you license any derivatives under the same license.

For specific details, appropriate credits, and updates/changes
to this license, please see: http://eclipsephase.com/cclicense


Printed in the USA











































“What’s the number?”

The words dig their claws into my new vocal cords and yank themselves up and out of my parched throat.

My diction is predictably poor, as it always is during the first few minutes following a resleeve. The pitch of

the voice is apparent despite the mumbled, sandpaper slur of the words. Definitely a biomorph and my latest

sex is female. This much I know in the first few seconds. The model eludes me right now, but Pll know for

certain soon enough, once motion is mine again. Another fury morph is my first guess.

The slab is hard. Nothing more than frigid metal with crisp white synth-slick wrapped around it. Typical
accommodations for a corp dollhouse. The chill seeps through my skin and wraps around my bones.

1 Acortical cruncher looms over me, waving his welcome-back beam side to side, occasionally catching my

pupils. His smug, bored face speaks: “Consciousness confirmed.” The beam clicks off. My question should

have made it obvious that I am back, but the guy is a slave to procedure. They all are. Corporate body banks

like their employees paralyzed by obedience, unable to think for themselves. I mumble the question again.

“What’s the number?”

Vienne ie

“How many after the Fall?”

“Are you for real?”


| am paranoid. Yes. | need to know the year every time | return upon a body


bank slab. Paranoia is just one of the plagues transhumanity faces these days.





I try to snag the data from my new sleeve’s mesh inserts before opening my mouth again. No luck. Asking
a sleeve tech for the year is always humiliating. Makes me feel like an amateur, but the circumstances are
definitely extenuating, so I press him. Hard.

“Answer the fucking question.”

The corp sloth gives me the lunatic eye before he answers.

“Uh ... 10 AF. You haven’t been gone that long. Your last backup ... “

He scans his entoptics for the info.

“ ... 14 days, 7 hours ago.”

It takes a second to sink in, but when it does, it stings. It never ceases to shock when time slips away from
me. Two weeks. Gone. Completely wiped from my existence. Two weeks ago, there was another me, sleeved
in another morph. There was a mission and it led to my death. That is all I know. Either Firewall failed
to retrieve the cortical stack off the corpse so I could retain those two weeks, or the fuckers deliberately
chose to swipe that time from me. Honestly, though, both possibilities are preferable to having another self
bouncing around out there, doing who knows what-the-fuck. Some t-humies get off on having multiple
selves traipsing all over, but my ego is in check. One Sava is enough misery to unleash on the ‘verse.

Shit. My brain is wandering off into morose territory; always does during the first moments following a
resleeve. I need a physical context. Something tangible to focus my attention on. I bring my hands in front
of my eyes, arms feeling like two-ton sacks of rocks. The fingers are thin and long; the knuckles callused,
scarred and misshapen. Obviously the work of many thrown punches, fists connecting with jaws, metal,
flesh. Yep. A well-worn fury morph. You get what you pay for, I suppose; or what Firewall is willing to pay
for. Why do I do it? As far as the org is concerned, I’m nothing more than a cheap precision instrument,
tossed into the recycling bin when I snap in half. There will always be more of me, until the horrors prove
too intense, until the files get too corrupt, until I know too much and Firewall decides to wipe me, then some
other sap will step in to preserve transhumanity. Preserve transhumanity. Fantastic. Now I’m babbling like

a Firewall propaganda tweet! My arms weaken and flop back to my sides. The strength just isn’t there yet.

A few more minutes with nothing but my thoughts.

On his way out of the recovery bay, the cort cruncher laughs at my feeble attempt at motion. “What’s
your hurry?” he says. “Just relax, willya? You collapse onto the floor, you’re gonna stay there until you get
yourself up. They don’t pay me enough to babysit newbies.” His flippancy doesn’t help my mood and the
melancholy returns.

What experiences are no longer a part of my consciousness? Perhaps the thrill of a lifetime. Did I discover
true beauty? Fall in love? Have an epiphany? Save a life? I’ll never know. Those memories, that life, that
version of me, is gone. The new me, lying on this slab, was never shaped by those experiences. My chest
hollows out from the weight of the loss.





I gotta shift the thought process.

Fuck it. Maybe there was no joy, no revelations. It
was a shit two weeks. I’m certain of it. I was bored
out of my mind. Better yet, broken and suffering
from an epic heartache. My demise was meaningless.
I OD’d on kick, flopping on the floor in a pathetic
speed-addled frenzy till my heart exploded. I was
gutted by some low-life scumborn in a back station
corridor over some lo-rez black market XP. I’m glad
the time was wiped. Ecstatic, in fact. Fuck it. Fuck
them. I don’t need those two weeks.

But these thoughts are lies. I need those two weeks.
I don’t feel whole without them. Hell, I feel incom-
plete if even an hour is sacrificed. I have to know.

Someone knows what occurred. No doubt.
Probably a Firewall proxy, Jesper most likely. He was
my connect this go round. I remember that much.
The wipe would have been his call. And proxies
have a quick trigger finger when it comes to wiping
us sentinels. Even a hard-earned rep score can’t save
my memories when Firewall deems the results of a
mission too sensitive for an outer circle thug like
myself to possess. As long as the fucking job gets done.
As long as transhumanity perseveres.

What a shit deal.

How did my life, my lives, come to this? Always in
the hands of another.

Again, the dread, the paranoia. I gotta shake this
off. I have to give the org the benefit of the doubt. I’ve
been a sentinel for decades. I like to think Pve saved
millions of lives, but I’m just not sure.

Do I trust the org? No. But there is an understand-
ing, a degree of respect. Though as the years continue
to race by, and the gaps grow longer and more fre-
quent, I’m beginning to doubt Firewall’s commitment
to my preservation.

Suddenly, my muse stirs, breaking my dark reverie.
Several entoptic displays appear in my field of vision,
cycling through diagnostic routines as my mesh
inserts finally come online. Careza’s familiar feminine
voice enters my mind.


The sound is soothing; like being cradled by
my mother, or embraced by a lover. The har-
monic upgrade was a worthwhile investment.
Careza has learned to use it well. I rarely think
of my muse as an AI. It is my only true friend
these days. I wonder if it shares the sentiment.
I’ve never shot the thought its way. I keep it to
myself. I’m afraid of what the response might be.

Hey Careza. Glad to be back.


You know me too well, Car. Better than I
know myself.


ASNIN S.WAVS B VZS4HV9


7, a, arr ee mia—«™


Thanks. Careza enjoys our conversations
when my brain has a slight buzz. It is always
trying to get me drunk.































Damnit. Would have made a killing on that one.
What did the odds go off at? But before Careza can
dig up the info, I shut down the operation. Wait. No.
I don’t want to know. It’ll only irritate me more. A
nervous energy starts to itch my entire system and a
thick familiar taste begins to coat my tongue. I need
a cigarette.


This resleeve just keeps getting better by the minute.
I hate smoking. Booze, fine. I can handle my alcohol,
but smoking always makes me feel like shit. Every
time I get sleeved in a morph with the addiction, I
struggle to kick it. Careza continues with her report
as I try to retain my sanity in the face of an intense
nicotine craving.


Finally some good news. At least I didn’t piss off
any allies in the past 2 weeks.


Rati is my passion. The lover I hold above all others.
She disappeared on me two years ago. No explana-
tion. The sting still lingers.

Let’s skip the update for now, Careza.


Run a newsfeed scan. Check for any major inci-
dents in the past 2 weeks. Maybe there’s a clue as to
what we may have been up to.

As Careza runs the scan and continues her stan-
dard sitrep, I shift my attention to the new sleeve. The
strength to stand is finally there. I push the morph
up and swing the feet onto the floor. Spasms shoot
through every muscle. New morphs always take a bit
of time in which to acclimate. Luckily, ’'m familiar
with the CoreCorp fury, sleeved it a few times in the
past. This one feels like an old pair of shoes, bit worn
and abused, but able to pound the pavement if need
be. The left ankle is a bit tender. I hold it up a bit
to get a look. Bit swollen. Definitely not new sleeve
dysmorphia. Probably a nagging injury. Again, a pain
in the ass, but you get what you pay for, I suppose.
The nanotat encircling the right bicep is rude and
obnoxious, even by scum standards—an entire slith-
eroid entering the genitals of a female pleasure pod,
fully animated. Class act, whoever opted to etch that
upon the morph. I hate identifying marks, but again,
if you can’t afford a clean morph, you take what you
eaneects

I slide off the table, managing not to fall over in the
process, and gingerly test the ankle. Sore, but it isn’t
going to snap off.

Put in a request for a patch, left ankle. Bute should
be fine.





[Phenylbutazone. On its way. And the cocktail will be here
in approximately 30 seconds. Nothing unusual on the news-
feed scan.|

Figures.











| plod over to the full-length mirror,
Standard issue in resleeve waking cham-
bers, and drop the sheet to take a look
at the new me. | spy the cortical cruncher
lingering in the doorway, my cocktail in
his hand, giving my body an appreciative
look. | don't recognize myself.


“Hand me my drink please.” I reach out my hand in
his direction without even acknowledging his presence.
He steps into the room, too close to me, and slips the
drink into my hand. His breath smells like some sort
of sour sausage.

“Not too bad under the sheet, are you?” he says. “I
took a peek earlier, but I must say, the slab didn’t do
you justice. On your feet, the curves really pop. Your
face isn’t much to look at, but that rack is ... ”

I cut him off before I vomit bile into my mouth. “It’s
exquisite. I know. Now shut up and back off before I
rip the skin off your face and slap you silly with it.” He
gets the message and slinks from the room.

It is a nice rack.

[If nice is defined by proportion, then | would say yes.]

Als, always so formal.

[You're approximately 4 centimeters taller than your usual
proprioception allows for, so watch your head.]

Thanks for the heads up.

[That was awful]

Yeah. Yeah. I know. A smile finds its way onto my
face as the banter with my muse lightens my mood.
Looking in the mirror, I try to broaden the smile, to
get a better sense of my new face. I show some teeth.
Nicotine stains all over them. I take a long sip from
my cocktail, swish the alcohol around a bit. I can feel
my blood respond instantly to the sauce. I close my
eyes and let out a sigh. Just a few moments of peace
is all I ask.

[We have a guest, Sava.] Damnit. No such luck.

Whoge

[Our last Firewall proxy, Jesper, has sent a beta-level fork of
himself. It is rather impatient to speak with you.]

Connect him.

They just cannot leave me alone, can they? Officially,
Firewall doesn’t even exist. It’s because of Rati that they
got their tentacles wrapped all around me, through me.
The whole mess on Mars. That’s where it all started.
The last time I saw Rati. All that knowledge they
allowed me to retain. But why? Until that day, I had
never realized just how scary the universe truly was.


0 1





No, not scary. Horrific. No other word for something
so vast, so uncaring. Transhumanity could be wiped
out completely and it would all just continue on as
before. Horrific. No other way to explain the feeling
you have when you come face to face with things truly
beyond comprehension. Hell, no other term could
encapsulate transhumanity’s actions towards each
other—much less what other beings lurking in the
void have in store for us. Perhaps that was why.
To teach me a lesson. To make certain I would
never forget, so I would never cease assisting the
org, because even the briefest glimpse of what is
actually out there is enough.

Jesper’s fork materializes in my field of vision.

[Welcome back, Sava.]

Fuck off, Jesper. You know I hate waking up
with lack.

[Sorry. Nothing | could do.] His expression is
serious and concerned, but his kinesics indicate
he is as calm as can be. What an act! Fucking
proxies never panic. They hold all the cards
and it’s never their minds that are on the line.

Yeah. Right. Get to the point. You don’t have
me sleeved in a combat morph to get some
downtime, so you must have something serious
lined up. Are Berk, Pivo, and Sarlo here?

[Yes, they have been resleeved in the same facility. ]

At least my team is with me. People I could
count on. To a certain degree.

All right. What are the details?


=
Mm
ep)
U
mT
J
ai
aa
BS)
=
>
r~
rr
U
6
x
x<
>
”
'?)
eo)
=
>
2)
|
CS)
a
J
=
>
r
r


& H





Pivo gripped the smooth outer surface of the station with
all eight arms. Nano-magnetics at the tips of his vacsuit
arms were the only difference between a secure hold and
an endless drift into the depths of space. He peered up
through his faceplate at the dark orb above him.

Earth.

His eyes locked on an expanse of dead black ocean
through the ominous clouds. Pivo longed to swim in
those ancient depths. Born and bred for space, he had
never once immersed himself in the former ecological
niche of his kind. Odds were against his ever taking
a plunge into the salty waters of an Earth ocean. The
planet was now a plagued death trap. A wasteland of
skeletal forms.

He imagined a time before the Fall, when his
ancestors thrust through blue waters and slipped
effortlessly through mazes of coral, or gently floated
along with the current, not bothered by the burden
of sapience. Perhaps octopi still survived beneath the
black waters of the present, eking out a brief existence,
biding their time, keeping the species true and alive
until the Earth could be reclaimed, and Pivo would
join them on that glorious day, abandoning knowl-
edge altogether, and returning to the ways of instinct.

Vacsuit sensors interrupted Pivo’s fantasy, detecting
a laser light that bathed his form—contact from Sava
by line-of-sight laser link. It was the preferred method








of communication when a mission required
discretion. Pivo’s muse processed the message,
and Sava’s voice entered his head.

[Something wrong? Why'd you stop moving?]

[Just enjoying the view,] Pivo beamed back.

[Enjoy it on the way down, for hours if you want.
Get inside the station before one of the sentry bots
finds us.]

Pivo didn’t bother to respond. There was no
arguing with Sava. No use in defending your
actions. Pivo began crawling along the shell
of the station again. The station itself was
tethered to the end of a long, black, carbon
nanotube cable that stretched all the way
down to the planet’s surface—the sole surviv-
ing space elevator.

Pivo located the breach, a thin scar in the
station’s metallic hull, the result of an internal
explosion responsible for the station’s demise
during the Fall. The breach was exactly where
Sava said it would be and the description of its
size was dead-on: a gap barely large enough for
a human infant to slip through. According to
Sava, years ago, the self-repairing nanosystems
operating in the hull’s metal had malfunctioned
before the breach had been fully repaired. The
level of mission details Sava managed to extract


>
>
fa
UL
BS)
=
>
r~
r
>
7)
m7
=<
=
©
O
<
mT
me]
=|
e)
‘U
”
”
"VU
un
?)
>
=
~”
ol
nm
Cc
J
=<
=
e)
BY)
U
=


from Firewall was scary sometimes. Paranoia
bloomed for a moment, but he quickly dis-
missed his suspicion, compressed his cephalopod
form, and squeezed his body through the breach.

In blackness, Pivo activated his infrared
emitter, casting the room in a light outside the
normal visual spectrum. The interior of the
lifeless station became visible to his enhanced
eyes in the eerie altered colors of infrared. Pivo
almost preferred the dark. Ice crystals glittered
from every surface, the result of flash frozen
moisture in the long-absent atmosphere. Frigid
clumps of human remains floated alongside
chunks of hull metal in a macabre zero-gravity
ballet. Pivo floated through the wreckage and
the gore, lightly tapping aside metal or flesh
to clear a path deeper into the room. A female
head drifted slowly by, the face frozen in a
gaping silent scream. An intact cortical stack
dangled from the severed neck. For a second,
Pivo considered snatching the stack, but he
was not here to retrieve lost souls. Instead, he
placed two of his arms upon the top of the
head and pushed it beneath him, towards the
floor. Like so many others lost during the Fall,


HdYOINOLDO :LSITVIDSdS HOSALONVN :LNADV TIVM3uls  OAld


7 LE


this person would remain forgotten here.

Pivo made it to the airlock without incident,
but he knew his luck would run dry eventu-
ally. A run-in with hypercorp guardians on a derelict
station was unavoidable. Sensors may have already
detected his presence. It was only a matter of time
before bots converged on his position. He just hoped
that when it occurred (and it most certainly would), it











would happen after he had opened up the airlock and
the rest of the team was inside the station.

The airlock had been welded shut from the inside.
Pivo was prepared for this eventuality, but it made his
detection by guardian bots a certainty. He composed
himself for a few seconds, focused on the task at hand,
then fired up the plasma torch built into one of his
vacsuit arms. A harsh hot blue glare filled the room.
Seconds were now his most precious possession.

He was almost through the inner door when his
muse pinged him with a warning from the passive
terahertz sensor. An object was moving towards
Pivo’s position rapidly, now only twenty meters away.
A sentry bot would be upon him in soon.

[Almost through the first door,] Pivo transmitted calmly,
even though it took every ounce of his will to keep
the torch steady. [I have company. Be ready. ]

[Copy that,] Sava replied.

Finally, Pivo cut through the seal. The octomorph
slithered four arms through the still smoldering sliced
metal, and with a strained yank, pulled the door
from the frame. The door slowly floated away into
the chamber, the edges rapidly cooling. The interior
airlock door was not welded shut. With a vocal sigh
of relief, all eight of Pivo’s arms began a frenzied
assault upon the airlock door’s manual controls.

[Few more seconds. Just a few more seconds.] But the
seconds had expired.

In his 360-degree field of vision, Pivo could see the
security bot thrust into view behind him. The bot
unloaded its weapons immediately, the shots ricochet-
ing off the floating airlock door. The bot advanced on
the door, and with a furious swat knocked the obstruc-
tion aside. It clanged upon the crystalline surface of
the wall. Just as Pivo pulled the last lever to release the
airlock door, blazing plasma fire engulfed him.


& H


Sava had instructed Careza to surge the neurochem
the instant the airlock portal was open. The muse
did not fail to deliver. In what seemed like an eternal
slow-mo to Sava’s charged brain, the airlock door
swung open into the station, aided by a thudding steel
leg kick courtesy of Berk, the team’s muscle. With a
flash of thought, Sava’s targeting radar snapped up an
entoptic display and locked on two targets: Pivo and
a sentry bot. The robotic guard dog was already level-
ing its weapons, but Sava was faster. Retinal-searing
plasma fire erupted from Sava’s weapon, singeing
one of Pivo’s arms and slamming the sentry back. A
second shot punched through the bot’s armored cara-
pace, melting critical components within, rendering
the bot a useless pile of fused scrap metal.

Sava moved quickly past the cursing octomorph
and unloaded two more shots into the smoking bot.

[We're clear,] Sava transmitted. [One down, but there is
always more. Count on it. Pivo, you shiny?]

[You scorched my breeding arm, puta.] Pivo shot back
with clear agitation rumbling in the harmonics.








[You rather | leave you to the bot next time?] Sava turned
to Sarlo. [Sarlo, get in here and find the console you need.
Berk, we're going to need to set up defensive positions, to
give hacker boy here time to crunch his bits.]

Pivo cut through his vacsuit and detached his
damaged arm, cursing Sava under his breath as the
vacsuit rapidly repaired itself and sealed the gap.

[Hey. Don't worry, Pivo. You've got seven more. And besides,
you don't really strike me as the breeding type anyway.] Sava
relished giving Pivo a hard time. It was one of the true
joys in life.

Pushing off from one wall to the next, Sarlo moved
along the chamber with ease and grace. His neotenic
morph was slighter and even more diminutive
than the average human child sleeve, com-
pletely augmented and customized to match
his “preferences.” He had paid a fortune for it.
The others never understood Sarlo’s penchant
for juvenile human sleeves, so much so that
he always kicked in his own credits to ensure
an augmented neotenic resleeve, even when
Firewall was footing the bill. They also didn’t
know where his seemingly endless supply of
personal funds came from, nor did they want to.
As long as he got the job done.

Two minidrones followed after Sarlo, lighting
the area in infrared and actively scanning on
other wavelengths. [This way,] he said, transmit-
ting an entoptic map to each team member’s
overlay. [It's not far, a hundred meters or so.] A high-
lighted route appeared on the map.

Sava and Pivo followed closely behind
Sarlo, while Berk struggled to keep pace in her
armored gynoid shell.

[Keep up, flatlander. We'll be down the gravity well
soon enough,] Sava beamed to Berk.

Berk replied.
The abandoned station was eerily quiet. Signs


HdHOW! SINS LOAN -4¥31IDOVH -LNADV T1VMasuls Bf O1YVS


of long-forgotten violence and desperation
lingered everywhere. Floating debris. Ruptured
and frozen bodies. Scorch marks and twisted
metal. Death owned this place.

When the team reached the control station,
Sava and Berk took up defensive positions in
the corridor while Sarlo and Pivo went to work
on the station’s dormant systems.

[I'll be damned! The mission spec was actually
right. The station systems are active but dormant.
Whomever's guarding this place didn't wreck the
systems, they left open the possibility that the space
elevator could be activated again.] Sarlo gleefully
began his procedures to hack the system.


Berk piped in.

Pivo waved one of his arms in agitation. [Need
| remind you that some of us happen to think that
reclaiming our home planet is a good idea?]

Berk replied.


HdHOIN HLNAS ‘Y¥3DVH -LN3DV TIVMadls YE


en DS eee





[Let's cut the politics.] Sava pointed at Berk. [You're
an anarchist, | get it.] Then Sava pointed at Pivo. [And
you're on a reclamation kick. Fine.] But Sava’s rant was
interrupted by half a dozen fast moving dots upon the
team’s entoptic radars. [Incoming pings. Sarlo, you in yet?]

[Working on it. Fuck. Fuck. Shit.] Sarlo’s childish voice
sounded petulant.

[Work faster. If these bots have heavy ordnance, we're
screwed.] Sava and Berk both unloaded suppression
fire down their respective stretches of corridor before
the bots even made it to the corners. The bots halted
their approach momentarily, taking cover just around
the bend. More bots began to appear on the radar,
moving towards the position of the first responders.


Sava unloaded another round of suppression at the
bend. Berk kept her weapon quiet, waiting for a bot
to make a move into the corridor before lighting
it up, but the bots remained put. More gathered,
and even more appeared on radar, moving to the
same position.


[Consider this a gift, ladies and gents ... |] And with a
final operation, Sarlo seized control of the station’s
entire security system.

Suddenly, one of the bots turned on the others.
Another soon joined it. In a matter of seconds, fumes
and debris came drifting down the corridor as all-out
warfare broke out between the bots. Sava and Berk
lowered their weapons and admired the sounds of
Sarlo’s handiwork.

[Damn, Sar! | guess that is why you are one of the best
hackers in the system! ]


[When you've got cutting edge-exploits courtesy of the
leet coding AGIs on Extropia, there's not a whole lot you
can't do.] Sarlo delivered the line with a calm harmonic,
but Sava was watching his kinesics, and they were off
the charts. The neotenic’s little heart was beating like
a drum roll. Sava opted not to bust his furless balls
about it, and instead let Sarlo have his moment in the
sun. This had been a “close one,” and another close
one might not end up in their favor.

Sava allowed a few seconds of relieved silence
before getting the team back to business. [Sarlo. How
soon till the elevator is active? |


& H


Pivo stuck to the portal, watching as they descended
below the soot-filled layer of clouds and the Earth
below came into view. They were in the atmosphere
now, descending on a taut beanstalk stretched
between the Earth and station above, a massive feat of
engineering built from carbon nanotubes. The shuttle
car crawled down the elevator cable, bringing them
closer and closer to the ruined planet.








Earth’s atmosphere was now choked with a thick
dust, the color of rust. The winds whipped over the
planet’s surface with breakneck velocity, swirling
dangerously in certain pockets. The world’s weather
systems had been irretrievably ravaged by the Fall,
when transhumanity had seemingly gone to war with
a group of rogue Als known as the TITANs. Bombs,
raging fires, chemical attacks, biowar plagues, vora-
cious nanoswarms—even nukes—had taken their
toll. It was now an inhospitable place, gripped by
nuclear winter. Some of the clouds were formed into
unusual shapes, defying the high winds, even seeming
to writhe as they moved—the thriving descendants of
self-replicating airborne nanoswarms, Pivo suspected.
Who knew what other monstrosities waited for them
below, evolved from the remnants of AI war machines?

The Earth was off-limits now. Abandoned to the
enemy. Though the TITANs were presumed to be
long gone, escaping the solar system via secretly-con-
structed wormhole gates, taking millions of forcibly
uploaded transhuman minds with them—they had
left many of their tools and weapons behind. Likewise,
some of the weapons transhumanity had unleashed
on the Als—and, quite often, themselves—had taken
on a life of their own. So Earth had been abandoned
and interdicted, with hypercorp killsats laced into
orbit to shoot down anything that attempted to leave
or land on the planet’s surface.

As a reclaimer, Pivo was part of a small but vocal
faction that advocated a return to Earth. There was
still hope for the planet, they believed. It had always
persevered, and this was no time to give up on it.
Earth needed to be cleansed and terraformed, resusci-
tating transhumanity’s home. But the reclaimers were
a minority. To most survivors of the Fall, the Earth
held too many horrible memories. Lives ruined. Loved
ones lost. Their own deaths. It was a monument to
transhumanity’s arrogance and mistakes, a grim
reminder that they were not above destroying them-
selves despite all of their advances and technology, or
perhaps because of them.

This didn’t prevent some from trying, of course.
Scavengers still raided the planet’s ruins, retrieving
long-lost treasures, cultural artifacts, or even the
preserved mind-states of those who failed to escape.
Some reclaimers had initiated their own secret mis-
sions, intending to establish a basecamp from which
they would begin operating their own reclamation
projects. Most were never heard from again.

The team of four rested and prepared equipment
in the shuttle’s large open lounge, Sava and Sarlo
in a cramped inflatable survival bubble so the bio-
morphs could escape the confines of their vacsuits
for a while. Pivo elected to remain outside the
bubble and in the vacsuit. Close confines with Sava
during the descent did not sound pleasant to him.
The walls of the lounge were smeared with decades-
old blood, now frozen into a crystalline brown in
the depressurized cabin. Whoever the last passengers
were to ride this shuttle, fleeing the doomed Earth,





must have set violently upon each other, fueled by
madness or despair.

[| wonder what it was like.] Sarlo tossed the thought
out to the group.

[What?] Pivo replied.

Sava quickly jumped in and put an end to the dis-
cussion Sarlo was yearning to start. [Quit with the phi-
losophizing and the dramatizing. You know | cannot stand that
shit.] Sava tried desperately to maintain order and an
air of gruff detachment. It was too easy to let the brain
wander off into the past and the fate of the millions
who perished during the Fall. To counter this, Sava
always resorted to the diatribe. [Listen. We all know the
mission specs. We're locating someone. A courier. Most likely
a corpse. Last known position while alive was the base station
we will drop into when this ride stops. Mount Kilimanjaro.
Which, according to quite reliable sources, was once overrun
by killbots, which are most likely still in the vicinity.] Sava
paused for dramatic effect before continuing. [We
retrieve something from the courier. What, we don't fucking
know. Only that it is quite valuable to the org. We stick to what
we know. | don't want to hear any more bullshit “what ifs”
and “| wonders.” If your thoughts are anywhere other than
the mission, keep them to yourself. | don't want to hear them.]
And with that declaration, the rest of the journey to
the Kilimanjaro station was in silence, each confined
to their own thoughts, not a single ping between them.


Sp ve


The shuttle rattled to a stop inside the dark cavern-
ous hangar. At one time, the Kilimanjaro hangar was
the busiest Earth-to-space station port in the world,
servicing millions of customers annually. Now, as
Pivo clung to a shuttle window and stared out into
the black emptiness of the hangar, it seemed as if the
place was a soulless vacuum.

[Ready when you are.] Sarlo pinged Sava, poised
to hack open the shuttle door and allow the stale
dust-choked air of Earth to waft over the team. Sava
nodded to Sarlo and the shuttle door slid open with
a rush of decompression. A blinding red-gray dust
blasted into the shuttle from the hangar and coated
the shuttle interior almost immediately.

Sava’s first step into the Kilimanjaro hangar landed
firmly onto the brittle ribcage of a child’s skeleton.
The bones snapped into splinters and powder with a
crunch. The floor surrounding the shuttle airlock was
carpeted with skeletons entangled in a mass of tattered
clothing. There was no way to avoid stepping upon
them. One by one, the others stepped from the airlock.

Berk beamed to the group.

[This whole planet is a tomb,] Sava replied, with an
extra echo harmonic allowing the word tomb to con-
tinue on well after the phrase was transmitted, added
specifically to annoy Pivo, who immediately shut
down the echo in his head with a countermeasure
from his muse.

Sava took a few more crunching steps forward,
then stopped. The rest of the team followed suit.











[Something is not right here.] Sava kicked at one of the
skeletons. The bones rattled and cracked. || don't see
any skulls. ]

[Forced uploading,] Sarlo transmitted. [TITAN machines
harvested the heads of the dead for scanning.] He shrugged.
[That's my guess, anyway. ]

[Shut up!] Sava signaled the team to silence. [Who
else hears that?]

A low mechanical whir reverberated nearby. [I'm
picking it up.] Pivo replied. [Up a bit to the north. About
30 meters.] As if in response to Pivo’s observation,
another whir began, this one behind the team, from
the south end of the hangar. Another whir from the
east joined in the chorus. The sounds were coming
closer, becoming more distinct, more aggressive.

[No visual, yet. This fucking place is so deep and thick with
this dust shit, seems to act like chaff too. Infrared is giving me
only about twenty feet!] Sava motioned for the team to
move to the right. [Stay close, we move slow and keep the
triggers itchy. The passenger lounges are just east of us. We
start the search there.] The whirs were now all around
them, hovering just outside visual range.

A flying insectoid bot with
six articulated arms ending in small buzzsaws lunged





from the dusty darkness at Berk, who dropped to
the floor and unleashed plasma fire into it. The bot
slammed into a pile of bones and rags and set it alight.
The fire spread quickly, leaping from dry cloth to dry
cloth. The blazing hangar floor now illuminated the
area in the hot orange glow of flame. At least a dozen
insectoid bots hovered in a perimeter around the team,
awaiting an opportunity to strike. Another bot dove
at Berk, its buzzsaw arms slashing wildly. Berk fired,
but missed. The bot slammed into Berk’s head and
the buzzsaws ground into her neck. Sparks flew in all
directions as metal met metal. She dropped her rifle
and pushed against the body of the bot till the saws
were off her neck.

Sava fired and dropped a bot, then dashed east,
leaping over spreading waist-high flames. [Make for
the lounge! ]

Pivo elevated onto two arms and ran behind
Sava, his five remaining arms flopping wildly above
his head. [Out of the way, ya poke!] Sarlo outpaced
the slower octomorph, running through the flames
towards the lounge.

Berk flung the frenzied bot into a flaming pile of
bones, scrambled to her feet, and followed after the


group, covered in bone bits and dust, the bot swarm
in whirring pursuit.

Sava reached the lounge first and the portal was
open. Turning with rifle raised, Sava took cover against
the door frame. Sarlo and Pivo were past the flames
and Berk was closing the gap, as were the bots. Sava
unloaded cover fire that sizzled over Sarlo’s head, knock-
ing another bot out, but the rest of the swarm remained
unfazed. They just kept coming. Suddenly, more bots
appeared out of the shrinking darkness near the lounge.

[There's more! They're flanking!] Sava blasted at the
new bots to try and slow down their gambit. Sarlo


was only thirty feet from the portal when he tripped


on a tangle of bones. His boyish body collapsed face
first into the dust and human remains. Pivo made an
awkward leap over him, skidded across the floor, and
squished into the outer lounge wall right near the
door. Sava reached out, snagged the octomorph by a
arm, and dragged him into the safety of the lounge.
Berk tried to stop and help Sarlo up, but her momen-
tum was too much and her footing upon the dusty
floor too unstable. She tumbled forward in a roll of
dust cloud, chipped bone, and tattered rags, finally
slamming into Sava in the doorway.


The three team members within the lounge gathered
themselves just in time to witness a bot latch onto
Sarlo’s head from above as he stood up. The machine
stretched two arms out to the side, then plunged their
spinning blades into Sarlo’s neck. Sarlo’s eyes went wide
and his body tensed as the saw blades ground through
flesh and bone, working through his neck in seconds.
The instant his head was severed from the torso, the bot
swooped around and zipped off over the flames, into
the dark oblivion of the far end of the hangar.

Sarlo’s headless body wavered for a second, then
collapsed, spurting blood in long, lazy arcs.


& H


Pivo, Sava, and Berk sat in silence. They had managed to
seal the portal into the lounge, locking out the horrors
of the hangar. The headhunter bots could still be heard
hovering outside the portal, occasionally clanging and
grinding their blades against the sealed door.

Berk finally broke the silence. [I'm trying very hard not to
think about what they're going to do with him.]

[Try harder. Sarlo knew the odds of survival were slim
when he signed on. We all did.] Sava stood up.


























[Should we tell him? When he resleeves?] Pivo knew this
was going to set Sava off, but he blurted it anyway.

[Would that be kindness or cruelty, Pivo? And besides,
there is no guarantee that any of us will survive. So who gives
a shit? Whenever your last backup was, | sure hope you're not
gonna miss anything since. Let's get moving. ]


& H


With Sarlo gone, Pivo took over the navigation duties.
They were nearing the corporate VIP lounge, the last
known location of the courier.

The team moved through dark corridors filled with
headless skeletons and mummified remains. Years
ago, the corporate forces defending the structure had
been overrun by AI war machines, which mercilessly
slaughtered everyone inside. The walls were scarred
from battle, covered in dried blood. Destroyed rem-
nants of the AI war machines littered the halls as well,
haunting monuments to the few victories humanity
had in their losing battle. Even as piles of scrap, the
machines had a menacing presence.

Berk commented.


As they entered a long concourse, the remains and
debris abruptly disappeared, as if cleared out.

[I'm getting some strange thermal readings here. Patterns
that don't make sense,| transmitted Pivo.

[What is that supposed to mean?] Sava beamed back.

Before Pivo could give thought to “I don’t
know,” his muse issued a chilling warning: [My
nanosensors register the presence of unknown nano-
bots in large numbers of a highly sophisticated design,
Suggesting a TITAN manufacture. Countermeasures
have been initiated. |

[Nanoswarm. Move! Move!] Pivo broadcasted
in a panic as he launched into a full two-armed
sprint. Sava and Berk followed Pivo’s lead without
question. They all knew the dangers of a TITAN
nanoswarm. Unlike the nanobots Pivo often


= ya AS OyAN Te


ee ee a i ests
|


made, which were manufactured with particular
purposes in mind, and which were neither self-sus-
taining or intelligent, this particular nanoswarm
was autonomous, self-replicating, adaptive, and
capable of making almost anything it needed.
Even as they fled, individual nanosensors were
measuring up the three agents, transmitting details
on their morphs and gear to the rest of the swarm.

A junction came into view ahead, the pathway nar-
rowing into a smaller tunnel. Suddenly, Pivo stopped,
just a meter before the tunnel. [Do not move forward!]
The others crashed to a halt.

[What the fuck Pivo!?] Sava looked back down the
hall. [Fucking swarm could be finishing us as we speak! ]

[My muse picked up a burst of thermal energy here. The
swarm is up to something,] Pivo warned.

Berk replied, as she waved

her hand across the tunnel entrance. Her metal hand
suddenly clanged to the floor, separated from her wrist.












[Monomolecular wire.] Even though the situation grew
more dire by the minute, Pivo was impressed and fas-
cinated with the inventiveness of the alien nanotech.
[It laced the door with it. Cuts through anything. Weak tensile
strength though—you probably snapped it.]

Berk picked her severed
hand off the floor. Down the hall, the nanoswarm
began to take a visible shape as the nanobots accreted.
The swarm was congealing into a fog, creeping closer.
Berk continued,


[So what are you saying, Berk? You done?] Sava transmitted.
Berk shook her head in disgust.


Berk turned and
ran directly into the fog. The nanoswarm sucked in
around her immediately and the disassembly began.
Berk’s metal frame began to dissolve as she ran further
and further away from Pivo and Sava, leaving a wispy
trail of nanoswarm behind her.


A few minutes later,
Berk’s signal went dead.


& H


Sava and Pivo entered the VIP lounge. When the
spaceport was overrun so many years ago, this was
the site of the humans’ last stand. Piles of security
personnel skeletons littered the floor just inside the
doorway. The charred remnants of a hopeless bar-
ricade were scattered beside the mounds of bone.
Skeletons draped in torn singed civilian garb were
clustered around the walls and corners, sometimes
three or four deep, as if they had all scrambled as far
as possible from some avatar of death in the middle
of the room.

Pivo started an operation to locate the RFID tag
the courier was supposedly chipped with in his left
shoulder blade. The code triggered a ping within three
meters. Pivo pointed a lengthy arm at a small bone
pile. [He's in there somewhere.]

Sava stepped over to the pile of three skeletons
and began rummaging through the bones, yanking
out or snapping off all the femurs. [Goddamnit | want
a cigarette. This morph has me so tweaked. Haven't | made
it clear | don't smoke? Yet, every time, they sleeve me in a
morph nailed with the habit.] Sava handed the bundle of
bones to Pivo.

[Must be a fury thing. Should just take a few minutes to
scan these for the nanoscale etching.] Pivo got to work.
[Enough time for a smoke, if you want.]

[Yeah. Real funny. How about | grind you up into dust and
smoke you?] Sava sat down on the floor as Pivo sent
out a chuckle.

The deceased courier, whomever he was, had been
entrusted with information too sensitive to transmit.




































No one knew the true capabilities of the TITANs to intercept and decode, so the courier had been
injected with nanobots that etched a nanoscopic encoded message directly onto one of his femur
bones. However, he had never made it off the planet. His message had never been delivered.
Pivo and Sava had no idea what the information was, but someone at Firewall obviously deemed
it worthy of capture. Information on the TITANs perhaps. Or some CEO’s secret family recipe for
pasta sauce.
[This is the one.] Pivo held out the femur to Sava and tossed the others to the floor.
[What does it say?]
[| don't know. Not sure | want to know.] Pivo continued to hold out the femur.
[Enough with the drama Pivo. Just get your nanos to read it. We need a copy of the data. If you don’t want to
carry, | will.]
[I'd prefer that. Thank you.] Pivo set his nanobots to work on deciphering the inscription. When they
were done, the intel was transmitted directly to Sava. Pivo wanted no part of it.
[So, now what? How do we get out of here? The only way out is the way we came in, and that's suicide.]
Pivo’s complexion changed from a milky green to an almost royal blue. It always happened when
helplessness began to settle in.



























Sava did not hesitate to answer, choosing to speak as opposed to transmit. “We’re not gonna
leave, Pivo. Not even gonna try.” Sava raised the plasma rifle and aimed it directly at Pivo’s
oblong head. “See you next time, calamari.” Sava pulled the trigger, and a fiery bolt of plasma
reduced Pivo to a twitching mass of bloody scorched cartilage atop writhing arms. The arms
continued to flop on the floor in a growing pool of blood as Sava sat down next to a pile of bones
and leaned against the wall.

Sava pulled out a cigarette and lit it. The first inhale was virtually orgasmic. Sava loved to smoke.

Upon exhale, Careza pinged. [Shall | contact Project Ozma?]

Yeah. Get our lady on the line.

A woman’s voice, cold and harsh, entered Sava’s head, so different from the soothe of

Careza.
[That depends.] Sava took another drag.


[Either you give me her location right now, or | take your precious info with me.]
There was a long pause before the woman transmitted again.


[Yeah. | suppose so.] The cigarette burned to the filter and Sava flicked it into a bone pile.
[So what's it gonna be?]


LNaDV WINZO LOarOudd


The connection with the woman terminated. Sava stood up and walked
over to where the courier’s femur lay and picked it up. Pivo’s gore coated the bone. Sava
wiped it off and held it up to take a close look.

Sorry, Careza. Info payload only. Leave the ego behind.

[Understood. |

With the flash of a thought, Sava instructed Careza to activate the cortical stack’s emergency
farcaster—a one-shot neutrino transmitter, powered by the tiniest amount of antimatter. Sava’s head
exploded all over the room, taking the courier’s femur with it. The information contained on the
femur, however, found its way almost instantly through the blackest depths of space, landing safely
onto a dedicated Firewall receiver elsewhere in the solar system.


& H


“What’s the number?”
The words dig their claws into my new vocal cords and yank themselves up and out of my
parched throat. My diction is predictably poor, as it always is during the first few minutes
following a resleeve. The pitch of the voice is apparent despite the mumbled, sandpaper slur
of the words. Definitely a biomorph and my latest sex is female. This much I know in the first
few seconds.


INGULARITY .









WHAT IS TRANSHUMANISM?

Transhumanism is one of the core concepts behind WHAT IS AN RPG?

Eclipse Phase. Check out this quick summary of the Never played a tabletop roleplaying game? Check out
cultural and intellectual movement. this synopsis of what a roleplaying game is and then





Mp. 18 read the description of how they're typically played.
@ pp. 18 & 20








ECLIPSE PHASE


An “eclipse phase” is the period of time between when a cell is

infected by a virus and when the virus appears within the cell and
transforms it. During this period, the cell does not appear to be
infected, but it is.






THEMES


Post-Apocalyptic, Conspiracy, and Horror themes are central






to the Eclipse Phase setting. Read more here: M p. 19


| es AW












a ;





ae


TERMINOLOGY


There's a lot of jargon in Eclipse Phase, but you






don't need to memorize it all—this is an open book
roleplaying game! @ pp. 25-27





DEFAULT CAMPAIGN: FIREWALL


In the default campaign setting, your character is an
agent-on-call—a “sentinel’—for a shadow network
known as Firewall. @ p. 22








SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


\CTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GEAR


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





We humans have a special way of pulling ourselves up


and kicking ourselves down at the same time. We’d
achieved more progress than ever before, at the cost
of wrecking our planet and destabilizing our own
governments. But things were starting to look up.

With exponentially accelerating technologies, we
reached out into the solar system, terraforming worlds
and seeding new life. We reforged our bodies and minds,
casting off sickness and death. We achieved immortal-
ity through the digitization of our minds, resleeving
from one biological or synthetic body to the next at
will. We uplifted animals and Als to be our equals. We
acquired the means to build anything we desired from
the molecular level up, so that no one need want again.

Yet our race toward extinction was not slowed and
in fact received a machine-assist over the precipice.
Billions died as our technologies rapidly bloomed into
something beyond control ... further transforming
humanity into something else, scattering us through-
out the solar system, and re-igniting vicious conflicts.
Nuclear strikes, biowarfare plagues, nanoswarms,
mass uploads ... a thousand horrors nearly wiped
humanity from existence.

We still survive, divided into a patchwork of restric-
tive inner system hypercorp-backed oligarchies and
libertarian outer system collectivist habitats, tribal
networks, and new experimental societal models. We
have spread to the outer reaches of the solar system
and even gained footholds in the galaxy beyond. But
we are no longer solely “human” ... we have evolved
into something simultaneously more and different—
something transhuman.


STARTING OUT


Eclipse Phase is a post-apocalyptic roleplaying game
of transhuman conspiracy and horror. Humans are
enhanced and improved, but humanity is battered and
bitterly divided. Technology allows the reshaping of
bodies and minds and liberates us from material needs,
but also creates opportunities for oppression and puts
the capability for mass destruction in the hands of
everyone. Many threats lurk in the devastated habitats
of the Fall, dangers both familiar and alien.


WHAT [5 A ROLEPLAYING GAME?


Have you ever read a book or seen a movie or a tele-
vision show where a character does something really
stupid, like heading into a basement at night when the
character knows the serial killer is around? The whole
time, you’re thinking: “I wouldn’t walk down those
creepy stairs to the dark basement, especially without a
flashlight. ’'d do X, Y, or Z instead!” Since you’re in the
passenger’s seat for the plot you’re reading or watching,
however, you simply have to sit back and let it unfold.





WHAT IS
TRANSHUMANISM?


Transhumanism is a term used synonymously to
mean “human enhancement.” It is an international
cultural and intellectual movement that endorses
dal -ULX=m oy mel =1al@=m-] are mm X=rea) ae) (elemcem=lalat-laa=mmual=
alelant-lameo)atelid(olavmm eloldammant-vale-1ihvar-lale mm olahvcy(e-1 INA
TaMei0] ¢) ole) ammo) mudalyanua-larialeleat-lalciaame-| em =100] ole-(e=15
Uiypale m= aal-sae [ale mm e=\e alate) roel (=smacome=) lias ial-1e-mmdal=
undesirable elements of the human condition
such as aging, disabilities, diseases, and involun-
tary death. Many transhumanists believe these
technologies will be arriving in our near future
at an exponentially accelerated pace and work to
rolae) ate) X=melal\ iz) e-t-] W-(qe =m Kom) ale me(=)pa lore e-lulen@olaiice) p
Tala 4at-mlo)aremceal-Janr-meolmealialecymee-laialelear-lalciaamele
roll of -m ae) al-y(e(=1a-1e Mm dal-mae-]ariid(olal-]m elie lelemel-1alycl-1a
idal-melUlaq-laimmalelant-lamee)aceliule)am-lalem-lam-laldiaace ma r-|é
oN f-]arecre Mi amer-) y=] e)| [d(=1m (oleldalm e)anvci(e-]m-lalemant=laie-]
faculties) as to merit the label “posthuman.”

As a theme, transhumanism embraces heady
questions. What defines human? What does it
mean to defeat death? If minds are software,
MiVial=1q=ae (oMnYcol0 Mol e-\iVandal- im Ulal-muVndam olaeyere-laalaaliale
idat=sanWan bimaat-\olalialsxwr-lale m-laliaat-] cme: lam-] Kiem elo e-]i-10)
to sapience, what are our responsibilities to
them? If you can copy yourself, where does “you’
end and someone new begin? What are the
potentials of these technologies in terms of both
oppressive control and liberation? How will these
technologies change our societies, our cultures,
and our lives? z


i





What if you could take hold of the driver’s seat?


What if you could take the plot in the direction you’d
choose? That is the essence of a roleplaying game.

A roleplaying game (or RPG, for short) is part
improvisational theater, part storytelling, and part
game. A single person (the gamemaster) runs the
SAime fOr AscLOupmOon playvcrEsethataprercmd mone
characters in a fictitious world. The world could
be a mystery game set in the 1920s that takes you
adventuring around the globe, a fantasy realm
inhabited by dragons and trolls and sword-wielding
barbarians, or a science fiction setting with aliens
and spaceships and world-crushing weaponry. The


players pick a setting that they find cool and want to


play in. The players then craft their own characters,
providing a detailed history and personality to bring
each to life. These characters have a set of statistics





POST-APOCALYPTIC, CONSPIRACY, AND HORROR THEMES


Several themes pervade Eclipse Phase, some with
VV ai Kola ind al=ma=r-(o(-7 am aat- hymn ave) am ol-mulaudiaat-ne-)hvamr-leallit-le
The following helps define these themes so that as
o)E-NA-1aMa=t-le MU adal=) am laumomaal “Mm ael (=) elele) emdal-\mel-lilalr-
Xo} |(o MUlate(=)a-1e-]arellale Mevmm ale Va 14] XY-W ee el-hX-m ole i ecme) a
such themes to create its unique setting.

Post-apocalyptic is a term used to describe fiction
set after a cataclysmic event has ended human civi-
lization as we know it (usually accompanied by loss
oy male laat-lamiik-me)aur-lamr-]iaalecimnelajealial.¢-]e)(-mcve-)(-) am Nar=
exact mechanism of the disaster is usually unimport-
ant: nuclear war, plague, asteroid strike, and so on.
The importance of the theme is the human condi-
tion. If the world we know is torn away from us
eTavemaleiaat-lacwienni-)au ale) ace) ol-y\olaremiant-lelialiaremiamealts
1d g-]ahyke) gant 1alelam come. lm ofe)-) mr-| efoler-]h\,e)d(omx-1 ad] ale pm ale)
does humanity cope? Do we survive and thrive and
(oN Y=] ceo) gal = Wa DLO MAYA (= 0m (oy-\- me] 0] ame) ual alerant-laliavaa iam dal
process? Or ultimately fall to extinction? Those are
the questions that drive this genre.

To conspire means “to join in a secret agreement
imomme (omr-[aMmUlalr-)uvai0] me) mali\ige) ale pie) mr-\el ame) an Ko MULY-mIUla a
means to accomplish a lawful end.” As such, a con-
spiracy theory attributes the ultimate cause of an
event or a chain of events (whether political, soci-
etal or historical) to a secret group of individuals
with immense power (political clout, wealth, and so
on) who hide their activities from public view while
aat-Javseleit-ndlalem=n\(-)alemnom-\elall-\(-mdal-v) ame [el-] Mm c-let-1 a0 be
less of consequences. Many conspiracy theories
contend that a host of the greatest events of history
were initiated and ultimately controlled by such
secret organizations. Of equal importance is the
Ji CJalmeuaaule lel (-m el-1ani-t-1amel(-lavel=cidlal-me|aelele-Mmivc-leniale
a secret war behind the scenes to determine who
influences the future.


(numerical values) that represent skills, attributes,
and other abilities. The gamemaster then explains
the situation in which the characters find themselves.
The players, through their characters, interact with
the storyline and each other’s characters, acting
out the plot. As the players roleplay through some
scenarios, the gamemaster will probably ask a given
player to roll some dice and the resulting numbers
will determine the success or failure of a character’s
attempted action. The gamemaster uses the rules of


the game to interpret the dice rolls and the outcome


of the character’s actions.

As a group exercise, the players control the sto-
ryline (the adventure), which evolves much like any
movie or book but within the flexible plot created
by the gamemaster. This gamemaster plot provides
a framework and ideas for potential courses of


Horror takes many forms, but in Eclipse Phase it is
more psychological than gore. It is the uncertainty
oy M10) AVANYE-) Pa Ga =MLOL) OL 1 aLX-moy Mur ave ifalemmaat-1K-n\ce)(-ane
things among the stars, and fear of the unknown.
NW dal-mola-r-lemeymmr-lellale Mu Mallale am Mat-ham) alolel (om \ (ola s{-F
dala Vel i(olamudalsam-raraelelaic-valarem-lil-vamaaliale cyar-lale|
idalomet(e.¢-s allele Ma=t-11P4- 1d (ela mevmdal-mnige)alem-laremerar-kiahy
idaliavekmadar-jamde-laljalelaat-]arw-la-me-) of-] 0) (-me)mmeleliale mxe
themselves and each other. Horror also arises both
1iqolaamdal-mae)anle)a-val-larirolamsal- lam dal-laom-|a-mve-] ayanmal lacey
leX=\ folate mole] ame lavei=1e-ye-Valellalemialat-leliaiale mele mUlalhV-lex~)
and that transhumanity may be its own worst
enemy. Despite all of the technological tools and
advances available to future transhumans, they still
face terrors like losing control of their own identi-
ties, their perceptions, and their mental faculties—
lavoyumKomant-anace)amaal=1| meld | a-m-\wr- Wy ol-1e (=

Eclipse Phase takes all of these themes and weaves
them together in a transhuman setting. The post-
FVoleter-) ha oldcemr-lale | (=m eon'(=) Mad al-mUlavel-le-1e-laleliate meymr-|]
that transhumanity has lost, the fight against extinc-
idfo)apar- [ave mm ako) ivamenle(lammeymmdal- lau Cir; ieaUlerel(-mr-ler-Tlacit
our own nature. The conspiracy side delves into the
nature of the secret organizations that play key roles
Tame(=ye-1eaalialiacemua-lacialelsat-lalia’amieidelcm-lalem ave)vmdal=
Yodo) aloymme(-uk-1 a anllal-ve Mm larennaleler-] (amet [ammeat-lale[-m dare)
lives of many. The horror perspective explores the
results of humanity's self-inflicted transformations
and how some of these changes effectively make us
lateyamsalelant-lammmhYdlale miar-1| Mmeelel-1dal-lam Cwr-lalr-\VC-la-lal-c ey
the massive indifference and the terrible a/ien-ness
day-lem el-Ja\/-lo (=m ual omOlalhV(-laXom- ale male\ivmde-lacjalelaat-laliaval
akitelalnace-laier-lel-]larimie (ealr-l el-(e,.<o| ge) op

Offsetting these themes, however, Eclipse Phase
also asserts that there is hope, that there is some-
idaliaceMuceladammirelaudiate mice) emr-lalomdar-lamde-lalialelear-laliay
can and will pave its own path toward the future.





action and outcomes, but it is simply an outline
of what might happen—it is not concrete until the
players become involved. If you don’t want to walk
down those stairs, you don’t. If you think you can
talk yourself out of a situation in place of pulling a
gun, then try and make it happen. The script of any
roleplaying session is written by the players, and the
story, based upon the character’s actions and their
responses to the events of the plot, will constantly
change and evolve.

The best part is that there is no “right” or “wrong”
way to play an RPG. Some games may involve more
combat and dice rolling-related situations, where
other games may involve more storytelling and impro-
vised dialogue to resolve a situation. Each group of
players decides for themselves the type and style of
game they enjoy playing!





ENTER THE SINGULARITY


19





9 | SYNC
) WELCOME T0 FIREWAL!
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SCHES


~~ F


TIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS =

THE MESH

ACCELERATED FUTURE

GEAR


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





BUT HOW DO YOU ACTUALLY PLAY?


To play a game of Eclipse Phase, you need the following:


e A group of players and a place to meet (real life
or online!)
One player to act as the gamemaster
The contents of this book
Something for everyone to take notes with (note-
pads, laptops, whatever!)
Two 10-sided dice per player (or a digital equivalent)


Imagination


GROUP OF PLAYERS AND A PLACE TO MEET


While roleplaying games are flexible enough to allow


any number of people, most gaming groups number
around four to eight players. That number of people
brings a good mix of personalities to the table and
ensures great cooperative play.

Once a group of players have determined to play
Eclipse Phase, they’|l need to designate someone as
the gamemaster (see below). Then they’ll need to
determine a time and place to meet.

Most roleplaying groups meet once a week at a reg-
ularly scheduled time and place: 7:00 PM, Thursday
night, Rob’s house, for example. However, each group
determines where, how they’ll play, and how often.
One group may decide they can only get together
once a month, while another group is so excited to
dive into the story potential of Eclipse Phase that
they want to meet twice a week (they decide to rotate





between their houses, though, so as not to overload a
particular player). If a group is lucky enough to have a
favorite local gaming store that supports in-store play,
the group might meet there. Other gaming groups
meet in libraries, common rooms at their school,
bookstores that have generously sized “reading
rooms,” quiet restaurants, and so on. Whatever fits
for your gaming group, make it work!

When getting together for a game, most RPGs
use the phrase “gaming session.” The length of
each gaming session is completely dependent upon
the consensus of the playing group, as well as the
limitations of the locale where they’re playing. The
particular story that unfolds in a given session can
also impact a session’s length. If playing in a game
store, the group may only have a four-hour slot and
the gamemaster and group may have determined—
through several sessions of play—that this is a perfect
time frame to enjoy the story they’re participating in
each week. Another group, however, may want an
even shorter length of time. Yet another group may
decide that while they’ll usually do four-hour sessions,
once a month they’ll set aside an entire Saturday for
a great all-day gaming session. Players will need to
dive in and start playing and be flexible to decide


what will provide the ultimate enjoyment for their


gaming group.

While the camaraderie of a shared experience of
playing face-to-face with a group of friends remains
the strength of roleplaying games, groups need not





confine themselves to a single mode of play. There are
myriad options that can be used. Email, instant mes-
sages, message boards, video chats, phone/voip calls,
text messages, wikis, (micro-)blogs: any and all of
these can be utilized to play the game without having
warm bodies in seats directly across the table from
one another.

Finally, when playing groups meet for the first time,
they should generate their characters (as opposed to
generating characters by themselves). While a gaming
group can decide to generate characters individually,
often it is far easier once the players are together.
This allows those more experienced to help those new
to RPGs. Even more important, it enables the entire
group to tailor the characters so there is not too
much overlap in capabilities and style. After all, with
the wealth of character opportunities available, you
don’t want to show up at the table with an almost
identical character to the player next to you.


THE GAMEMASTER


Once a group has been organized, someone needs to
step up and take the reins of the gamemaster. Some
groups have a single gamemaster that runs all their
gaming sessions month after month. Other groups
rotate a gamemaster, with a single person running
a given portion of the unfolding story for several
games before handing the work off to another player.
Once again, the participants should be flexible. Some
groups may have the perfect person who loves the
work involved and is more than willing to run session
after session, while other groups may decide that they
all want to take turns both as the gamemaster and
as players.

The gamemaster controls the story. They keep track
of what is supposed to happen when, describe events
as they occur so that the players (as characters) can
fede t TOMUM Cin: C)RUIACKEOR Oller Chan lctctio line tic
game (referred to as non-player characters, or NPCs),
and resolve attempts to take action using the game
system. The game system comes into play when char-
acters seek to use their skills or otherwise do some-
thing that requires a test to see whether or not they
succeed. Specific rules are presented for situations that
involve rolling dice to determine the outcome (see the
Game Mechanics chapter, p. 112).

The gamemaster describes the world as the char-
acters see it, functioning as their eyes, ears, and
other senses. Gamemastering is not easy, but the
thrill of creating an adventure that engages the other
players’ imaginations, testing their gaming skills and
their characters’ skills in the game world, makes
it worthwhile. Posthuman Studios will follow the
publication of Eclipse Phase with supporting supple-
ments and adventures to help this process along,
but experienced gamemasters can always adapt
the game universe to suit their own styles. In fact,
since Eclipse Phase is published under a Creative
Commons license, (see p. 5), players are encouraged
to tailor the universe to their style of play and also








7” ee ee —(‘“—OS


to share that with other players. You never know
when a specific choice you’ve made in the running of
a campaign is exactly what another gamemaster and
his group is looking for.


THE CONTENTS OF TIS BOOK


Whether you have purchased the print or electronic
version, this book is specifically organized to present
the information you need to know to start telling
your stories in the Eclipse Phase universe. Below
you'll find a summary of each chapter of the book.

A Time of Eclipse: A comprehensive history and
setting fully describes the Eclipse Phase universe and
how humanity transitioned from here to there. See p. 30.

Game Mechanics: The player’s desired actions
become reality within the universe through quick and
easy-to-use game mechanics. See p. 112.

Character Creation and Advancement: Creating a
unique character can be one of the most enjoyable
experiences of roleplaying. Even more rewarding
is watching that character evolve and grow across
numerous gaming sessions, far beyond anything your
imagination first envisioned. See p. 128..

Skills: Beyond a character’s innate abilities, their
skills are what set them apart. This is what your char-
acter knows and what they know how to do. See p. 170.

Action and Combat: What is a dramatic story
without action and violence? When words fail,
weapons will blaze. See p. 187.

Mind Hacks: The unusual possibilities offered by
psi abilities and mental reprogramming. See p. 216.

The Mesh: The all-pervasive nature of the mesh
ensures that it is a key element to any story. See p. 234.

Accelerated Future: The wonders of advanced tech-
nologies and how they work. See p. 266.

Gear: Personal enhancements, weapons, robots,
and everything in between. See p. 294.

Game Information: The quintessential set of insider
secrets for gamemasters. See p. 350.


TARING NOTES


Whether a gamemaster or player, you’ll need a way
to track information. Players will be generating char-
acters and making changes to those characters from
session to session. Meanwhile, the gamemaster will
have a host of information to track: notes on how
the story is unfolding due to player character interac-
tion that you'll need to fold into next week’s session;
changes to NPCs; changes to player characters that
the players are not yet aware off (e.g., a character has
been mind hacked but doesn’t yet know it); and so on.

Additionally, some groups enjoy a synopsis of each
session that can be compiled and read at a later time
in order to enjoy and share their exploits, just as you
might fileshare clips from your favorite video game
to show off your skill in taking the bad guy down
(traditionally this has been called “bluebooking”).
This can be particularly useful if a player was unable
to attend a given session, providing a quick re-cap
that they can read before attending the next gaming


*):
whe
ay
‘\
‘
N
a |
~~


|
~


.
a





ENTER THE SINGULARITY





i)





































SYNOPSIS





WELCOME TO FIREWALL






A TIME OF ECLIPSE





GAME MECHANICS






CHARACTER CREATION









SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ATIARIN ARIMA ANAAN AT


session and thus avoiding a bog-down up-front as
that player tries to catch up on current events in the
game. The session scribe can be a shared responsibility
or assigned, all based on what a given playing group
finds works best for them. Likewise, some gaming
groups audio-record their entire game session, both
for later teterence andor actual play. podcasts:

The old standard of a pencil and paper still works
wonders. Digital technologies, however, provide many
new options for players. From a text file on a laptop
to a shared wiki, the ability to track large amounts
of information in a quick and useful fashion—while
simultaneously making appropriate information
available to each player from session to session—sig-
nificantly decreases how much time everyone needs
to spend tracking information. That time can now
be redirected into the enjoyment of participating in
a great story.


DICE


As described in the Game Mechanics chapter (see
Dice, p. 114), two ten-sided dice are required to play
Eclipse Phase. While most players enjoy the feel of
tossing dice onto a table, there are many other mecha-
nisms for rolling two ten-sided dice to achieve a 00 to
99 result. Players who make heavy use of any online
technologies for game play—such as using online chat-
ting or video blogging—should find it easy to track
down and implement a quick dice-rolling program.


IMAGINATION


All too often, it’s easy for someone looking at an RPG
to be intimidated. So many concepts to grasp, so many
ideas that seem overwhelming. Just as described under
What is a Roleplaying Game?, however, how often
have you read a book or watched that movie and
decided that you would have done it better? That’s
your imagination at work. Just dive in and you'll be
amazed at how quickly you can immerse yourself in
the Eclipse Phase universe. Soon you'll be spinning
stories with the best of them.

Also, don’t forget to tap your resources. Your
gaming group is your best resource. What’s going on,


01 1 at







ideas for how to handle a situation, or how to take
on a bad guy: these are just some of the things that
can and should be discussed by the gaming group
in between sessions, and each is an opportunity to
strengthen your imagination.

Another resource is simply watching TV or reading
a good book. Pay attention to how the story is put
together, how the characters are built, and how the
plot unfolds. Push your imagination and soon you’ll
be figuring out subplots and who the bad guy is long
before it’s revealed. Knowing how a story is put
together enables you to put together your own stories
during each gaming session.

Finally, eclipsephase.com is the official site for
Eclipse Phase. If you have questions about the game
or want to see how another group of players handles
a given situation, post on the forums. The online com-
munity can be just as helpful and enjoyable as a local
gaming group.


WHAT DO PLAYERS DO?


The players can take on a variety of roles in Eclipse
Phase. Due to advances in digital mind-emulation
technology, uploading, and downloading into new
morphs (physical bodies, both biological and syn-
thetic), it is possible to literally be a new person from
session to session. With bodies taking on the role of
gear, players can customize their forms for the task
at hand.


THE DEFAULT CAMPAIGN


In the default story (also known as the “campaign





setting”), every player character is a “sentinel,” an
agent-on-call (or potential recruit) for a shadowy
network known as “Firewall.” Firewall is dedicated
to counteracting “existential risks”—threats to the
existence of transhumanity. These risks include
biowar plagues, nanotech swarm outbreaks, nuclear
proliferation, terrorists with WMDs, net-breaking
computer attacks, rogue Als, alien encounters, and so
on. Firewall isn’t content to simply counteract these
threats as they arise, of course, so characters may also
be sent on information-gathering missions or to put





in place pre-emptive or failsafe measures. Characters
may be tasked to investigate seemingly innocuous
people and places (who turn out not to be), make
deals with shady criminal networks (who turn out not
to be trustworthy), or travel through a Pandora gate
wormhole to analyze the relics of some alien ruin (and
see if the threat that killed them is still real). Sentinels
are recruited from every faction of transhumanity;
those who aren’t ideologically loyal to the cause are
hired as mercenaries. These campaigns tend to mix a
bit of mystery and investigation with fierce bouts of
action and combat, also stirring in a nice dose of awe
and horror.


ALTERNATE CAMPAIGNS


When they’re not saving the solar system, sentinels are
free to pursue their own endeavors. The gamemaster
and players can use this rulebook to generate any type
of story they wish to tell. The following examples
provide a brief look at the most obvious opportunities
for adventure in Eclipse Phase.

iter seachccumpaloneyariaimt bellows ya MiISt Ol
“archetypes” for Eclipse Phase are provided in
parenthesis. Archetypes are the names applied to
the most common character types featured in those
scenarios. For example, in a traditional detective
story, the archetypes would be the Detective, the
Damsel In Distress, the Hard-bitten Cop, and so
on. In a cowboy movie, the archetypes would be the
Gunfighter, the Bartender, the Marshal, the Indian
Brave, etc. Players will note that some archetypes fit
into multiple story settings. The character creation
system (p. 128) allows players to create any of the
suggested archetypes. Just as roleplaying games are
designed for players to build their own stories, these
archetypes are just suggestions and players can mix
and match as they please.

Salvage and Rescue/Retrieval Ops: The Fall left
the Earth and numerous habitats in ruins—but these
devastated cities and stations contain untold riches
for those who are brave and foolhardy enough.
Potential hauls include: weapon systems; physical
resources; lost databanks; left-behind uploads of
friends, family, or important people; new tech-
nologies developed and lost in the brief singularity
takeoff; valued heirlooms of immortal oligarchs;
and much more. Outside of these once-inhabited
realms, space itself is a big place and lots of people
and things get lost out there. Some need to be saved
and some are beyond saving. This option lets players
explore the unknown or seek out specific targets on
contract. (Archeologist/Scavenger/Pirate/Free Trader/
Smuggler/Black Marketeer)

Exploration: There are plenty of opportunities
to be had as an explorer, colonist, or long-range
scout—perhaps even as one of the few lucky or sul-
cidal individuals who explore through an untested
Pandora gate. Even the Kuiper Belt, on the fringe
of our solar system, is still sparsely explored; there
may be riches and mysteries still to be found. Many





dangers also lurk in odd corners of the system, from
isolationist posthuman factions to secretive criminal
cartels, as well as pirates, aliens, and others wishing
to remain out of sight. (Explorer/Archeologist/
Scavenger/Singularity Seeker/Techie/Medic)

Trade: While the majority of inner system trade is
controlled by sleek hypercorporations, many of the
smaller or more independent stations rely on small
traders. In the post-scarcity outer system, trade takes
on a different form, with information, favors, and
creativity serving as currency among those who no
longer want for anything due to the availability of
cornucopia machines. (Free Trader/Smuggler/Black
Marketeer/Pirate)

Crime: The patchwork of city-state habitats and
widely varying laws throughout the system creates
ample opportunity for those who would make a
living from this situation. Black market commodi-
ties and activities include infomorph-slave trading,
pleasure pod sex industries, data brokerage and
theft, extracting/smuggling advanced technologies
and scientists, political/economic espionage, assas-
sination, drug and XP dealing, soul-trading, and
much more. Whether as an independent or part of
an organized criminal element, there are always
opportunities for those with a thirst for adven-
ture or profit and questionable morals. (Criminal/
Smuggler/Pirate/Fixer/Black Marketeer/Genehacker/
Hacker/Covert Ops)

Mercenaries: The constant maneuvering of
ideologically driven factions, the squabbling over
contested resources, and the rush to colonize new
exoplanets beyond the Pandora gates all spark new
conflicts on a regular basis. Some of these simmer
and seethe as low-intensity conflicts for years, occa-
sionally flaring into raids and clashes. Others break
out into all-out warfare. Women and men willing
to bear arms for credits are always in demand for
good wages. Players can engage in commando and
military campaigns in habitats, between the stars, or
in hostile planetary environments. (Merc/Security
Specialist/Fixer/Bounty Hunter/Ex-Cop/Medic)

Socio-Political Intrigue: The corporations and
political factions that span the solar system do not
always play nice with each other, but neither is it
wise for them to openly confront each other except
under extreme circumstances. Many battles are
fought with diplomacy and political maneuvering,
using words and ideas more potent than weapons.
Even within factions, social cliques can compete
ruthlessly and heated class conflicts can come to
a boil, tearing a society apart from within. In this
campaign, the players can start as pawns of some
entity who rise through the ranks as they become
more enmeshed in the intrigues of their sponsor, play
a group of ambassadors and spies stationed in the
Opposition’s capital, or run as a group of activists
and radicals fighting for social change. (Politico/
Socialite/Covert Ops/Hacker/Security Specialist/
Journalist/Memeticist)


>
—
CX
—~
oe |
—)
Cy
—
Te)
Lada
=
—
CX
Luda
—
—
=


NO
o%)








\


|


=


-
2
a


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS

CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
| SKILLS

rious an connat }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





WHERE DOES IT TAKE PLACE?


While Eclipse Phase is set in the not-too-distant future,
the changes that have taken place due to the advance-
ments of technology have transformed the Earth and
its inhabitants almost beyond recognition. As players
dive into the universe, they’ll generally encounter one
of the following settings.


TRANSHUMANITY 5 HABITATS


The Earth has been left an ecologically devastated
ruin, but transhumanity has taken to the stars. When
Earth was abandoned, so too were the last of the great
nation-states; transhumanity now lacks a single unify-
ing governing body and is instead subject to the laws
and regulations of whomever controls a given habitat.

The majority of transhumanity is confined to orbital
habitats or satellite stations scattered throughout the
solar system. Some of these were constructed from
scratch in the orbit or Lagrange points of planetary
bodies, others have been hewn out of solid satellites
and large asteroids. These stations have myriad pur-
poses from trade to warfare, espionage to research.

Mars continues to be one of transhumanity’s largest
settlements, though it too suffered heavily during the
Fall. Numerous cities and settlements remain, and
more are established each year, though the planet is
only partially terraformed. Venus, Luna, and Titan
are also home to significant populations. Additionally,
there are a small number of colonies that have been
established on exoplanets (on the other side of the
Pandora gates) with environments that are not too
hostile towards humanity.

Some transhumans prefer to live on large colony
ships or linked swarms of smaller spacecraft, moving
nomadically. Some of these rovers intentionally exile
themselves to the far limits of the solar system, far
from everyone else, while others actively trade from
habitat to habitat, station to station, serving as mobile
black markets.


THE GREAT UNKNOWN


Whesareasvot the Calanay seilaie tay cers ericeLOue ima
humanity are few and far between. Lying betwixt
these occasional outposts of questionable civilization
are mysteries both dangerous and wonderful. Ever
since the discovery of the Pandora gates, there has
been no shortage of adventurers brave or foolhardy
enough to strike out on their own into the unknown
regions of space in hopes of finding more alien arti-
facts, or even establishing contact with one of the
other sentient races in the universe.


THE MESh


While not a “setting” in the traditional sense, as the
sections describe above, the computer networks
known as the “mesh” are all-pervasive. This ubiq-
uitous computing environment is made possible
thanks to advanced computer and nanofabrication


———
a
z=
imme

——————
=
=





technologies that allow unlimited data storage and
near-instantaneous transmission capacities. With
micro-scale, cheap-to-produce wireless transceivers so
abundant, literally everything is wirelessly connected
and online. Via implants or small personal comput-
ers, characters have access to archives of information
that dwarf the entire 21"-century internet and sensor
systems that pervade every public place. People’s
entire lives are recorded and lifelogged, shared with
others on one of numerous social networks that link
everyone together in a web of contacts, favors, and
reputation systems.


COO vs. MORPH


The distinction between ego (your mind and personal-
ity, including memories, knowledge, and skills) and
morph (your physical body and its capabilities) is one
of the defining characteristics of Eclipse Phase. A good
understanding of the concept right up front will allow
players a glimpse at all the story possibilities out of
dare aire:

Your body is disposable. If it gets old, sick, or too
heavily damaged, you can digitize your consciousness
and download into a new one. The process isn’t cheap
or easy, but it does guarantee you effective immortal-
ity—as long as you remember to back yourself up and
don’t go insane. The term morph is used to describe
any type of form your mind inhabits, whether a vat-
grown clone sleeve, a synthetic robotic shell, a part-
bio/part-synthetic “pod,” or even the purely electronic
software state of an infomorph.

A character’s morph may die, but the character’s
ego may live on, assuming appropriate backup mea-
sures have been taken. Morphs are expendable, but
your character’s ego represents the ongoing, continu-
ous life path of your character’s mind and personality.
This continuity may be interrupted by an unexpected
death (depending on how recently the backup was
made), but it represents the totality of the character’s
mental state and experiences.

Some aspects of your character—particularly skills,
along with some stats and traits—belong to your
character’s ego and so stay with them throughout
the character’s development. Some stats and traits,
however, are determined by morph, as noted, and
so will change if your character leaves one body and
takes on another. Morphs may also affect other skills
and stats, as detailed in the morph description.


WHERE TO G0 FROM HERE?


Now that you know what this game is about, we
suggest that you next read the A Time Of Eclipse
chapter, (p. 30), to get a feel for the game’s default
setting (which you are, of course, free to change to
suit your whims). Then read the Game Mechanics
chapter, (p. 112) to get a grasp of the rules. After
that, you can move on to Character Creation and
Advancement (p. 128) and create your first character!








TERMINOLOGY


Eclipse Phase uses a variety of jargon to simply convey
the numerous concepts covered within the pages of this
book. While not all-inclusive, this list of terminology
will allow players to quickly acclimate themselves for
their journey into Eclipse Phase. If you read something
and are confused, don’t worry. These concepts are fully
explained in later sections of this book.

Note that several of the words on this list are
standard scientific terms, often used in astronomy. As
Eclipse Phase attempts to remain as close to “hard


science” as possible—while allowing players to inter-


act with the great stories waiting to unfold—such
terms are used liberally.


@ Aerostat: A habitat designed to float like a balloon in a
planet's upper atmosphere.


@ AF: After the Fall (used for reference dating).


@ AGI: Artificial General Intelligence. An Al that has cogni-
tive faculties comparable to that of a human or higher.
Also known as “strong Al” (differentiating from more
specialized “weak Al”). See also “seed Al.”


@ Al: Artificial Intelligence. Generally used to refer to weak
Als; i.e., Als that do not encompass (or in some cases, are
completely outside of) the full range of human cogni-
tive abilities. Als differ from AGIs in that they are usually
specialized and/or intentionally crippled/limited.


@ Anarchist: Someone who believes government is
unnecessary, that power corrupts, and that people should
control their own lives through self-organized individual
and collective action.


@ Arachnoid: A spider-like robotic synthmorph.


@ Argonauts: A faction of techno-progressive scientists
that promote responsible and ethical use of technology.


lm AR: Augmented Reality. Information from the mesh (uni-
versal data network) that is overlaid on your real-world
senses. AR data is usually entoptic (visual), but can also
be audio, tactile, olfactory, kinesthetic (body awareness),
emotional, or other types of input.

@ Async: A person with psi abilities.

lm AU: Astronomical Unit. The distance between the Earth
and the Sun, equal to 8.3 light minutes, or about 150
million kilometers.

@ Autonomists: The alliance of anarchists, Barsoomians,
Extropians, scum, and Titanians.

@ Barsoomian: A rural Martian, typically resentful of
hypercorp control.

@ Basilisk Hack: An image or other sensory input that
affects the brain's visual cortex and pattern recognition
abilities in such a way as to cause a glitch and possibly
exploit it and rewrite neural code.

@ Beehive: A microgravity habitat made from a tunneled-
out asteroid or moon.


@ BF: Before the Fall (used for reference dating).


®@ Bioconservative: An anti-technology movement that argues
for strict regulation of nanofabrication, Al, uploading, forking,
cognitive enhancements, and other disruptive technologies.





@ Biomorph: A biological body, whether a flat, splicer,
genetically engineered transhuman, or pod.








@ Body Bank: A service for leasing, selling, acquiring, or
storing a morph. AKA dollhouse, morgue.
@ Bots: Robots. Al-piloted synthetic shells.


@ Bracewell Probe: A type of autonomous monitoring deep-
space probe meant to make contact with alien civilizations.









@ Brinkers: Exiles who live on the fringes of the system, as
well as other isolated and well-hidden nooks and cran-
nies. Also called isolates, fringers, drifters.






Mi Case: A cheap, common, mass-produced synthetic shell.


@ Chimeric: Transgenic, containing genetic traits from
other species.









®@ Circumjovian: Orbiting Jupiter.

@ Circumlunar: Orbiting the Moon.

®@ Circumsolar: Orbiting the Sun.

@ Cislunar: Between the Earth and the Moon.


@ Clade: A species or group of organisms with common
features. Used to refer to transhuman subspecies and
morph types.





@ Cole Bubble: A habitat made from a hollowed-out aster-
oid or moon, spun for gravity.






@ Cornucopia Machine: A general-purpose nanofabricator.

®@ Cortical Stack: An implanted memory cell used for ego
backup. Located where the spine meets the skull; can be
cut out.





@ Cyberbrain: An artificial brain, housing an ego run in a
software brain-state. Used in both synthmorphs and pods.





® Darkcast: Illegal and black market farcasting and ego-
casting services.





@ Domain Rules: The rules that govern the reality of a
virtual reality simulspace.





@ Drone: A robot controlled through teleoperation (rather
than directly via onboard Al).





@ Ecto: Personal mesh devices that are flexible, stretchable,
self-cleaning, translucent, and solar-powered. From ecto-
link (external link).





@ Ego: The part of you that switches from body to body.
AKA ghost, soul, essence, spirit, persona.






@ Egocasting: Term for sending egos via farcasting.


@ Entoptics: Augmented-reality images that you “see” in
your head. (“Entoptic” means “within the eye.")





@ ETI: Extraterrestial Intelligence. The term Firewall uses
to refer to the god-like post-singularity alien intelligence
theorized to be responsible for the Exsurgent virus.





@ Exalts: Genetically enhanced humans (between genefixed
and transhumans). AKA genefreaks, ascended, elevated.







@ Exoplanet: A planet in another solar system.

m@ Exsurgent: Someone infected by the Exsurgent virus.

@ Exsurgent Virus: The multi-vector virus created by
an unknown ETI and seeded throughout the galaxy in
Bracewell probes. The Exsurgent virus is self-morphing and
can infect both computer systems and biological creatures.






@ Extrasolar: Outside the solar system.


W@ Factors: The alien ambassadorial race that deals with
transhumanity. Also called Brokers.


>
—
CX
—~
oe |
—)
Cy
—
Te)
Lada
=
—
CX
Luda
—
—
=


ie)
Ol








SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SC HES


\CTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





@ The Fall: The apocalypse; the singularity and wars that
nearly brought about the downfall of transhumanity.


@ Farcasting: Intrasolar communication utilizing classi-
cal communication technologies (radio, laser, etc.) and
quantum teleportation.


@ Farhauler: Long-distance space shipper.


@ Firewall: The secret cross-faction conspiracy that works
to protect transhumanity from “existential threats” (risks
to transhumanity's continued existence).


@ Flatlander: Someone born or used to living on a planet
or moon with gravity.


@ Flats: Baseline humans (not genetically modified). Also
called norms.


@ Flexbot: A shape-changing synthmorph capable of
joining together with other flexbots in a modular fashion
to create larger shapes.


@ Forking: Copying an ego. Not all forks are full copies.
AKA backups.


@ Forknapping: Kidnapping a backup or fork.
@ FTL: Faster-Than-Light.
@ Fury: A transhuman combat morph.


@ Gatecrashers: Explorers who take their chances using a
Pandora gate to go somewhere previously unexplored.


M@ Genehacker: Someone who manipulates genetic code to
create genetic modifications or even new life.


@ Ghost: A transhuman combat morph optimized for
stealth and infiltration.


®@ Ghost-riding: The act of carrying an infomorph in a
special implant module inside your head.


@ Greeks: Trojan asteroids or moons that share the same
orbit as a larger planet or moon, but are 60 degrees
ahead in the orbit at the L4 Lagrange point. The term
Greeks normally refers to the asteroids orbiting around
Jupiter's L4 point. See also “Trojans.”


@ Habtech: A habitat technician.


@ Hibernoid: A transhuman modified for hibernation, for
extensive travel in space.


@ Iceteroid: An asteroid made from mostly ice rather than
rock or metals.


@ Iktomi: The name given to the mysterious alien race
whose relics have been found beyond the Pandora gates.


@ Indentures: Indentured servants who have contracted
their labor to a hypercorp or other authority, usually in
exchange for a morph.


@ Infolife: Artificial general intelligences and seed Als.


@ Infomorph: A digitized ego; a virtual body. Also known
as datamorphs, uploads, backups.


® Infugee: “Infomorph refugee,” or someone who left
everything behind on Earth during the Fall—even their
own body.


® Isolates: Those who live in isolated communities far
outside the system (in the Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud).
AKA outsters, fringers.

@ Jamming: The act of “becoming” a teleoperated drone
thanks to XP technology. Also sometimes applied to
accesing the real-time XP feed from lifeloggers and others.


———
a
z=
\ommees

Ss
=
———





@ Kuiper Belt: A region of space extending from Neptune's
orbit out to about 55 AU, lightly populated with asteroids,
comets, and dwarf planets.


@ Lagrange Point: One of five areas in respect to a
small planetary body orbiting a larger one in which the
gravitational forces of those two bodies are neutralized.
Lagrange points are considered stable and ideal locations
for habitats.


@ Lifelog: A recording of one’s entire life experience, made
possible due to near-unlimited computer memory.

@ Lost Generation: In an effort to repopulate post-Fall, a
generation of children were reared using forced-growth
methods. The results were disastrous: many died or went
insane, and the rest were stigmatized.

@ Main Belt: The main asteroid belt, a torus ring orbiting
between Mars and Jupiter.

@ Meme: A viral idea. A unit of information transmitted
socially that self-replicates and mutates in a manner
analagous to genes.

@ Mentons: Transhumans optimized for mental and cogni-
tive ability.

@ Mercurials: The non-human sapient elements of the
transhuman “family,” including AGIs and uplifted animals.

@ Mesh: The omnipresent wireless mesh data network.
Also used as a verb (to mesh) and adjective (meshed
or unmeshed).

@ Mesh ID: The unique signature attached to one’s mesh
activity.

@ Microgravity: Zero-g or near weightless environments.

@ Mist: The clouds of AR data that sometimes fog up your
perception/displays.

@ Morph: A physical body. AKA suit, jacket, sleeve, shell, form.

@ Muse: Personal Al helper programs.

@ Nanobot: A nano-scale machine.

@ Nano-Ecology: Pro-tech ecological movement.

@ Nanoswarm: A mass of tiny nanobots unleashed into
an environment.

@ Neo-Avians: Uplifted ravens and gray parrots.

M@ Neogenesis: The creation of new life forms via genetic
manipulation and biotechnology.

@ Neo-Hominids: Uplifted chimpanzees, gorillas, and
orangutans.

M@ Neotenics: Transhumans modified to retain a child-like
form.

@ Novacrab: A pod created from genetically engineered
spider crab stock.

@ Olympian: A transhuman biomorph modified for athleti-
cism and endurance.

@ O'Neill Cylinder: A soda-can shaped habitat, spun for
gravity.

@ Oort Cloud: The spherical “cloud” of comets that sur-
rounds the solar system out to about one light-year from
the sun.

m@ PAN: Personal Area Network. The network created when
you slave all of your minor personal electronics to your
ecto or mesh inserts.








@ Pandora Gates: The wormhole gateways discovered
after the disappearance of the TITANs.


@ Pods: Mixed biological-synthetic morphs. Pod clones
are force-grown and feature cyberbrains. Also known as
biobots, skinjobs, replicants. From “pod people.”

@ Posthuman: A human or transhuman individual or
species that has been genetically or cognitively modified
so extensively as to no longer be human (a step beyond
transhuman). AKA parahuman.


@ Prometheans: A group of transhuman-triendly seed Als
that were created by the Lifeboat Project (precursors to
the argonauts) years before the TITANs became self-
aware and that (mostly) avoided Exsurgent infection. The
Prometheans secretly back Firewall and work to defeat
existential threats.


@ Proxies: Members of the Firewall internal structure.

Mi Psi: Parapsychological powers acquired due to infection
by the Watts-MacLeod strain of Exsurgent virus.

@ Reaper: A warbot synthmorph.

@ Reclaimers: A transhuman faction that seeks to lift the
interdiction and reclaim Earth.

M@ Redneck: A rural Martian. See Barsoomian. AKA Reds.

@ Re-instantiated: Refugees from Earth who escaped
only as bodiless infomorphs, but who have since
been resleeved.

@ Resleeving: Changing bodies or downloading into a
new one. Also called remorphing, reincarnation, shifting,
rebirthing.

@ Rusters: Biomorphs optimized for life on Mars.

@ Scorchers: Hostile programs that can damage or affect
cyberbrains.

@ Scum: The nomadic faction of space punks/gypsies
that travel from station to station in heavily modi-
fied barges or swarms of ships. Notorious for being a
roving black market.

@ Seed Al: An AGI that is capable of recursive self-improve-
ment, allowing it to reach god-like levels of intelligence.

@ Sentinels: Agents of Firewall.

@ Shell: A synthetic physical morph. AKA synthmorph.

@ Simulmorph: The avatar you use in VR simulspace
programs.

@ Simulspace: Full-immersion virtual reality environments.

@ Singularity: A point of rapid, exponential, and recursive
technological progress, beyond which the future becomes
impossible to predict. Often used to refer to the ascension
of seed Al to god-like levels of intelligence.

@ Singularity Seeker: People who pursue relics and
evidence of the TITANs or other possible avenues to
super-intelligence, either to learn more about it or to
become part of a super-intelligence themselves.

@ Skin: A biological physical morph. AKA meat, flesh.

®@ Skinning: Changing your perceived environment via
augmented reality programming.

@ Sleight: A psi power.





@ Slitheroid: A snake-like robotic synthmorph.





@ Smart Animals: Partially uplifted animal species (includ-
ing dogs, cats, and rats). Some other large smart animals
(elephants) are nearly extinct.






@ Spime: Meshed, self-aware, location-aware devices.

@ Splicers: Humans that are genetically modified to elimi-
nate genetic diseases and some other traits. Also known
as genefixed, cleangenes, tweaks.





@ Swarmanoid: A synthetic morph composed from a
swarm of tiny insect-sized robots.






@ Sylphs: Transhuman biomorphs with exotic good looks.


@ Synthmorph: Synthetic morphs. Robotic shells possessed
by transhuman egos.





@ Synths: A specific type of synthmorph. Synths are stan-
dard androids/gynoids; robots that are designed to look
humanoid, though they are usually noticeably not human.







@ Teleoperation: Remote control.

@ Titanian: Someone from Titan, a moon of Saturn.

@ TITANs: The human-created, recursively improving, mili-
tary seed Als that underwent a hard-takeoff singularity
and prompted the Fall. Original military designation was
TITAN: Total Information Tactical Awareness Network.








@ Torus: A donut-shaped habitat, spun for gravity.
@ Transgenic: Containing genetic traits from other species.
@ Transhuman: An extensively modified human.


@ Trojans: Asteroids or moons that share the same orbit
as a larger planet or moon, but follow about 60 degrees
ahead or behind at the L4 and L5 Lagrange points. The
term Trojans normally refers to the asteroids orbiting at
Jupiter's Lagrange points, but Mars, Saturn, Neptune, and
other bodies also have Trojans. See also “Greeks.”





@ Uplifting: Genetically transforming an animal species to
Sapience.






@ Vacworker: Space laborer.


@ Vapor: A failed mind emulation or crippled fork/info-
morph (from vaporware).





M@ VPNs: Virtual Private Networks. Networks that operate
within the mesh, usually encrypted for privacy/security.





@ VR: Virtual Reality. Imposing an artificially constructed
hyper-real reality over one’s physical senses.





m@ X-Caster: Someone who transmits/sells XP recordings of
their experiences.






@ Xenomorph: Alien life form.


W@ Xer: As in “X-er"—someone addicted or obsessed with
XP. Sometime also used to refer to people making XP.





lm XP: Experience Playback. Experiencing someone else's
sensory input (in real-time or recorded). Also called
experia, sim, simsense, playback.

@ X-Risk: Existential Risk. Something that threatens the

very existence of transhumanity.








@ Zeroes: People without wireless mesh access. Common
with some indentures.


*):

whe
ay
‘\
\
N\

N

~~


WN


.


La





ENTER THE SINGULARITY





Y >






r ————————— ET >,















3


SYNOPSIS


7 — oe


WELCOME TO FIREWALL










A TIME OF ECLIPSE


i


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


Me i


SKILLS


™E


\CTIONS AND COMBAT


Ly
MIND HACKS

x %
THE MESH


7


ACCELERATED FUTURE


* q
GEAR ‘y


™%,
Ys


GAME INFORMATION =|


%
7
_ oh


REFERENCE





GG wevcome ro rinewaL


[Incoming Message Received. Source:

Cla aatennvial
[Quantum Analysis: No Interception

Detected]

[Decryption Complete]
Greetings,

Your references and background
have been triple-checked and con-
firmed, and you are now vetted as
a sentinel operative. Welcome to
Firewall, friend.

For those new to our private
network, Firewall is an organiza-
tion dedicated to protecting
transhumanity from threats—both
internal and external—to our con-
tinued existence as a species. The
Fall may have reminded us that
our ability to survive and prosper
is not guaranteed, but our kind
has a remarkably short attention
span. Despite our achievement of
functional near-immortality, we
continue to face numerous dangers
that may contribute to our extinc-
tion. Some of these risks come from
our own factionalism and divisive-
ness, combined with universally
available technology that could
cause widespread destruction and
untold deaths in the wrong hands.
Some stem from our short-sight-
edness, failing to see the dangers
in which we place ourselves and


—$___— —_—_____ ———-“ — =
= = —s SS ~ —,


our environments through care-
less actions. Some arise from our
own creations turned against us,
as the TITANs proved. Other risks
may come from alien intelligences
whose motivations we cannot yet
fathom, and of whom we may not
even be aware. Still others may
threaten us by sheer chance and
the mindless but deadly cause-and-
effect of a universe in which we are
but an insignificant speck.

Firewall exists to identify, analyze,
and counter these risks. We are all
volunteers. We are all placing our
own lives at risk in order to ensure
the survival of transhumanity.

Firewall has existed, under other
names and guises, since before
the Fall. Numerous agencies with
a similar agenda banded together
in the wake of those cataclysmic
events to assess our situation and
prepare for the worst. Now we
operate under a single umbrella.

We are a private network for two
reasons. First, our existence and
operational abilities are protected
by our secrecy. The less our oppo-
sition knows about us, the more
effectively we can counter them.
Similarly, certain authorities might
be hostile to an organization such
as ours operating in their claimed


—__— ae



























territory. Though some may be
aware of our existence, we bypass
numerous legal and jurisdictional
hurdles that might otherwise
hamper our actions and goals.
Second, our mission sometimes
brings to light information that is
not only dangerous in the wrong
hands, but might even trigger
widespread panic if made public. In
some cases, the very existence of
such knowledge could be problem-
atic. By retaining secrecy and oper-
ating on a need-to-know basis, we
automatically counter certain risks.
Firewall is a decentralized, peer-
to-peer network. We have minimal
hierarchy and we answer to no one
but ourselves. Our node structure
enables us to share resources and
talents without sacrificing the
privacy and security of our operatives.
You have been recruited because
of your knowledge, assets or skills,
and/or because you have come into
contact with certain restricted data.
You have proven your willingness
to support our goals. Our lives and
existence—and the future of trans-
humanity—may rest in your hands.
So here's to the future—may we
all live to see it.
Detate MY (excrete
[This Message Has Self-Erased]


On
SE LE i a a a ES


SS = —-——~S SR,


™


WHAT YOU REALLY NEED TO KNOW


[Incoming Message Received. Source:

Unknown]

[Quantum Analysis: No Interception

Detected]

[Decryption Complete]
Sit down, and grab yourself a
ila diate mela Le

Forget all of that Al-generated
intro crap you just read. Here's the
real deal.

You're probably dying to know
what you've been dragged into.
Maybe you've been told the party
line already: that we're all that
Stands between transhumanity
and extinction. Or maybe someone
whispered to you that we're a rogue
Operation that meddles in heavy
shit that we have no authority to
get involved in and that we some-
times get people killed as a result.
You must be curious. Maybe you've
got a vigilante streak and you re
Koo) dt ate fn comes) o)] | m0) (oLoye nie) amr- Mxe (oyele)
cause. Would it matter to you if the
cause was a deluded one? Maybe
youre a conspiracy wingnut and
you're dying to know what secrets
Firewall is clutching to its collective
chest. What if those secrets shat-
tered the carefully constructed lies
that we all tell to ourselves to keep
Our sanity intact?

Everything you've heard, good or
bad, about Firewall very well may
be true. We're not angels. We lost
the sheen on our ideals when the
TITANs forcibly uploaded their first
human mind. Right now, you should
be asking yourself what the fuck you
. just signed up for. | did.

~ 1 Truth is, Firewall is lots of things.
NV KoS5 aio) i a (So [ooo Fam oLUh amr- (0) amo)
so fucking horrible you'll be think-
Tae r=] oYelename)e-landiale mre olbli (cl mamielels
stack and resorting to an earlier
backup just so you can forget it all.
If you have any romantic visions
about being a hero, drop them now.
You won't feel like a hero when
you airlock some kid because he’s
carrying an infectious nanovirus.
You won't feel brave when you run








EEE EEE _ a





—————— a EE Te
| TE =





across some alien thing and crap
your pants. And you won't even
feel human anymore when you
make a call that will cost dozens,
hundreds, or even thousands of
people their lives, even if you are
saving millions more.

So why would anyone be crazy
enough to be part of this thing?
Because it needs to be done. Our
survival depends on it. To some
people, it’s altruism, defending
transhumanity. But really, it's about
Saving your own fucking neck
too. Sure, you could abstain from
taking responsibility and let some
self-described authority take care
of it. But if the anarchists have
anything right, it's that people in
power can't be trusted. As often as
not, they're part of the problem. So
Firewall does things the collective
way. We're underground, but we're
an open source operation. We share
information and resources towards
a common goal. We organize in
networked ad-hoc cells, smart-mob
style. We don't let anyone accrue too
much power or control. Everyone
involved in an op has an equal
say. We police ourselves. We come
from all sorts of backgrounds and
factions, but we face a common
enemy—and we fight to win. There
is no alternative.

Maybe you've heard of the Fermi
Paradox? That question asked why,
with a galaxy so huge, there were so
few signs of other life? Even though
we've met the Factors and seen
evidence of other aliens, our galactic
aYsd{e]a) exe) aateyere Mecjavolel (Mm e\-mmee-\ VITAL
with intelligence—but it’s not.

Il tell you why. The universe
is not fucking fair. If transhuman-
ity were wiped out, the galaxy
wouldn't even notice. Just look at
the Earth. That planet still exists,
still supports life, even though
we're far gone. Reality is an uncar-
ing asshole. Forget all that utopian
crap about living forever. We'll be
lucky to survive another year. We've




















developed technologies that put
weapons of mass destruction in the
hands of everyone, but we're still an
adolescent species that has trouble
overcoming petty tribal bullshit. If
you're really looking forward to
exploring the universe as a post-

mortal, you're going to have to

work hard at it. Survival isn't a right,

it's a privilege.

When you sign up with Firewall,
you put yourself on call. Anytime
some shit goes down in your neck
of the woods or that you might be
particularly helpful in dealing with,
you ll get a call. You'll be expected :
to drop whatever you're doing and »
put everything else on hold as if \
your life depended on it—it prob- \
ably does. When you're in the field, \
on an op—" going to the doctor,” as ‘
we call it—your cell is empowered
to act as it sees fit ... just keep in
mind that you'll be answering to \
the rest of us later. You'll also have .
the Firewall network to back you |
up—though resources are often \
limited, so don't expect us to always \
save your ass. Other sentinels can be
called on to pull strings, but every
time we do so, it threatens to unveil
an agent, create a trail that we need
to clean up, and otherwise compli-
cates matters. Self-reliance is key.

One last thing: don't ever, ever
forget that we have enemies. I'm |
not just talking about the nutjob |
who wants to nuke a habitat to
make a political statement or the
neo-luddites who think biowar
plagues will teach us all a lesson, =
I'm talking about the agencies that
know Firewall exists and consider it
a threat. If they tag you as a sentinel,
your days are numbered. Maybe
your backups too. So watch yer 1.
friggin’ back. v

So that's the real deal, as honest We
as | can give it. Welcome to our secret ;
clubhouse, comrade. Remember: death
is just another day on the job.
erate MY (excrete [ed
[This Message Has Self-Erased] 3%


ag


<3 >  WELCOMETOHREWALL ©


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


TIMELINE


A one-page listing of important events, both pre- and
post-Fall. Ml p. 37





AES


With the Earth destroyed, transhumanity now
resides in various types of space habitats or


settlements on planets, moons, or asteroids.
@ pp. 66 and 86


ECONOMY


Three economies exist—the Old Economy, based


POLITICS on industrial consumer capitalism; the Transitional
A major ideological and memetic conflict is underway Economy, with both publicly- and privately-owned
between the capitalist cyberdemocracies of the inner system cornucopia machines; and the New Economy, where
and the libertarian autonomists of the outer system. Read more most people can freely use cornucopia machines to
about their differences here. ll p. 55 create goods as long as they possess the material


components. M@ p. 61





=
—_
~%


|


aif :
‘.

















AROUND THE UNIVERSE FACTIONS |


Explore different parts of the universe; read an _‘ Transhumanity is a fractured species, divided into numer-
overview of the solar system, check out the map, or ous cultural and socio-economic groups and classes, each
learn about exotic extrasolar systems. Ml p.86 competing for influence on their collective future. Ml p. 70






System Gazeteer @ p. 86 Hypercorps @ p. 70









~ Star Map @ p. 87 Political Blocs i p. 74





~ Extrasolar Systems Ml p. 109 @ ~ Socio-Political Movements i p. 79
"Religious Groups M™ p. 82
TECHNOLOGY ek:
Pervasive advanced technologies have profoundly Criminal Factions M p. 83
affected people's daily lives, from the wireless mesh i Firewall ll p. 84


and personal Al muses to backups,


egocasting, and morphs. M™@ p. 45 Zama ~
™~ PANDORA GATES Mp WN
These mysterious wormhole gates allow instantaneous travel to
distant star systems, opening the galaxy’s door to transhuman-
ity. Presumed to be artifacts abandoned by the TITANs, are these _|









devices a danger or an opportunity? Ml p. 46


Zo





A ee) eR Ss PM el ee RS a ee ee RS a | ee) eR AS Pa ae


This chapter provides a complete overview of the your mouth, I could really care less what they teach


Eclipse Phase universe. It starts with a history, goes you. For it is most certainly lies. ve lived in the inner


into detail on the setting, covers factions, and then system. I know the rules and the deceits told in the


SYNOPSIS


WELCOME T0 FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


\CTIONS AND COMBAT


ND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


wraps up with a system gazetteer.


AM at-mce)iCo\uulalemcw-mie-laxe al elmeymr-lam-lUlel (onal (=m a-1ee)\e
ered after the catastrophic decompression event
on Walther-Pembroke Station. The audiofile is
leX=1 I (=)Vi=xe fm Kom Ol -Mr- Ig =1e0) co) ale Mey mm Dlo)ale)/-lal-Ciaale(=15
Valo Kom ol-m-Mielaalaat-ld(o)ameymmalCMmUlalelele)icial-romuiela @
A People’s History of an Unfortunate Universe. &


A PEOPLE S HISTORY OF all
UIFORTUNATE WIVERSE


[Sounds of scratching on the microphone, creaking of
furniture, the noise of a woman clearing her throat]

What?

[Indistinct murmuring]

Fuck you. I do this how the fuck I want, though
it was nice of you to put me in this nice young
woman’s body.

[Sounds of hands running along fabric]

Does my vulgarity shock you, corporate lackey? No


matter, I’m sure you can edit it out for your proles.


Now—you asked about my book? Is it a history book
you ask? No. It is an anti-history book. I shall tell you
about the future.

[Mumbling, questioning tone]

What does it hold? The future, you mean?

[Indistinct “Yes.” ]

No. I don’t think you care about the future. What


you really want to know is: will you get the future


you want? And that is an easy question to answer. No.


No, you will not get the future you want. Because you
are stupid enough to ask this stupid question about
the future.

[Silent pause]

I remember reading a scan of an old real print
comic once. The character in it was railing against the
imaginary people of his imaginary world, taking them
to task about their dissatisfaction with the future they
lived in. But it was really aimed at the stupid people
who wanted their stupid little futures and who were
too stupid to see that the future is now. It’s always
now. Except it isn’t anymore. The TITANs changed
that. The future is now yesterday, and last week, and
ten years ago. Especially ten years ago. But the future
is also back on poor old Earth—it’s a legacy of where
we’ve been and what has come before.

Do they teach you history on Venus, in your sealed
compounds and resort aerostats? No, don’t open


name of civil order and “national security.”

Nations! Ha! Even at the onset of the 21“ century,
nations were starting to go into decline. It just took
everyone a while to realize they were obsolete.

Do you remember the great nations of the world?
Are you old enough to remember how they sat around
and debated whether the major climate shifts they
were creating were even real? Even when many of
them agreed that something needed to be done, none
of them stood up to do it. The leaders of the world
carried on with business as usual, secure in their
privilege, as droughts ravaged Africa and Central
Asia, Europe froze, and severe weather wreaked havoc
everywhere. People across the globe were feeling the
pinch of starvation or rampant epidemics, but the
leading nations were more concerned about the refu-
gees pouring over their borders and polluting their lily
white paradises with their customs and languages and
willingness to work for a pittance just to survive.

The wars over oil and energy were only worsened
by wars over the weather and water that followed.
Unstable regimes rose and fell or were pushed over
the edge, all in pursuit of precious liquids. The great
nation states transformed into fortresses, steeled
against the twin threats of the barbarians threatening
them on the outside and the masses of their poor and
dispossessed internally, all of them wanting to come
in only for a little drink.

You know, I’ve actually heard some conservatives
refer to that period as a golden age, a peak time for
the corporations and the rich. It’s certainly true that
it was a golden age for repression—and profits. If you
were in that lucky fraction of a percent of the popula-
tion who could afford it, it was certainly a good time,
but for the majority of humanity it was a time of
horrors. Global inequality was larger than ever before.
Robots were taking jobs away from human hands.

This was a time of radicalization. Failing govern-
ments no longer supplied people’s basic needs. The
globalized poor turned to local tribes, fundamentalist
groups, political radicals, and criminal networks for
the means to survive. Insurgent groups flourished, but
they depended on the black market to survive, and
soon their leaders were more concerned with making
money than making change.

The nation states, as always, resorted to repres-
sion. Civil liberties were restricted and surveil-
lance increased. Automated weapons systems were
deployed first against guerrillas and terror cells, then
against agitators and demonstrators. I remember the
first time I saw those police drones at a demonstration
in support of a worker’s strike in Long Beach. The








drones ordered us to disperse once, only once, before
they opened fire with their “nonlethal” weapons.
Nonlethal my ass. Three people died that day and
dozens were injured. The mainstream media ignored
it even if the bloggers didn’t.

Meanwhile, the privileged elites continued to
prosper. Longevity treatments expanded lifespans—
for those who could afford it. Major crackdowns
swept up off-brand pharma and stifled bootleg
procedures by pioneering biochemists, even while
worldwide life expectancies dropped for the first time
in decades. Why extend the lives of so many poor
people when expert systems as smart as any human
could be built in a fraction of the time it would take
to educate an actual person? When robotics and
drone technologies allowed menial jobs to be turned
over to uncomplaining and unpaid labor? The rich
had their high-pricetag designer chimeric pets to keep
them company anyway.

Not all of the upper classes were wallowing in
opulence while the planet around them starved and
drowned. A few were looking ahead at the changes on
the horizon, scheming how to stake their claim. Some
of these worked to expand their dominion, building
a space elevator in sub-Saharan Africa and sending
robotic probes out to map the solar system in detail.
They even founded the first stations on Mars and
Luna then, more than fifty years before the Fall.

The ecopocalypse wasn’t going away, however, no
matter how much those in power tried to ignore it.
Severe winters and droughts continued to pound at
us. Rising ocean levels devastated coastlines world-
wide with massive flooding. A few last-ditch efforts to
undertake mega-scale geoengineering projects created
as many problems as they fixed. These were viewed
with cynicism anyway, as some were thinly disguised
test runs for terraforming techniques being prepared
for offworld deployment.

It often seemed as though the eyes of the fortunate
were no longer focused on the world around them,
but rather on the heavens above. The completion
of the first space elevator and the first mass driver
on our moon kicked off a new space race and the
competition was on to stake claims around the solar
system. All this new expansion was powered by the
first mass-produced efficient fusion power plants and
the establishment of helium-3 mining enterprises.

Back on Earth, though, the hammer finally fell.
Insurgents adopted fifth generation warfare tech-
niques, sharing open source methods of resistance,
utilizing swarming attacks on critical systempunkts.
People crushed under years of oppression rose up in
these opportunities and smashed at the state and cor-
porate apparatus that had held them down. Nation
after nation fell to insurgencies manned by those who
had fought in thousands of little wars over fuel, ponds,
and bread crusts.

Most states fought back by becoming more totali-
tarian and repressive, but the tide of rebellion spread
offworld as a series of outposts and stations declared





themselves in sympathy with their earthbound
compatriots and announced a manifesto for a more
humanistic approach to solar system colonization.
Numerous scientists and engineers, who had previ-
ously worked as pawns in corporate space expan-
sions, adopted a technoprogressive stance. That’s
how the argonauts were born, you know, taking
their name from a previous group of scientists who
advised the US government and Pentagon on science
and policy called the Jasons. Faced with reprisals
from their corporate masters, a number of argonauts
defected from the hypercorps, in some cases taking
key resources and research with them, while others
went underground.

This is when the hypercorps really took off, though,
those shark-like bastards. They let the nation-states
and lumbering multinationals of old take the brunt
of the global rage and assault. They took advantage
of the chaos to slip free of the old moral and ethical
restraints on human experimentation and from the
legal purview of the nationalities that had birthed
them. They embraced the opportunities of numerous
new technologies and the drive into space. It was their
research labs that cooked up the first sentient artificial
intelligences, the first gengineered human clones, and
the first true uplifts: chimps and dolphins brought
into awareness as corporate experiments and slaves.

As the last of the old states became increasingly
desperate to cling to their power and land, the
hypercorps extended a helping hand. They offered
debt-bondage terms to those who were willing to sign
over their rights and humanity for a trip offworld, to
work as indentured servants on corporate colonies
and stations. Hundreds of thousands took the offer as
an alternative to the crushing poverty and chaos on
Earth. The business of resource exploitation exploded
across the solar system as stations were established
as far out as the Kuiper Belt. Voices that spoke of
respecting biodiversity and natural ecologies were
ignored as the hypercorps toiled to reshape planets
and moons to their will.

This was the state of things until about twenty
years before the Fall. Though many of the old oppres-
sor states had been struck down, new ones arose, and
the various global insurgencies oscillated between
making radical changes and falling into the same
old tribal warfare traps. Reactionary religious and
political forces on Earth also railed against the hyper-
corps’ agenda, resulting in some terrorist attacks and
sabotage strikes and culminating in a failed attempt
to disable the space elevator by an Islamist suicide
cell. The hypercorps were quick to retaliate, ordering
an orbital bombardment using high-density objects
against the headquarters and compounds of several
key opposition leaders. Though effective in decapitat-
ing several terrorist networks, the mass destruction
sparked outrage against the hypercorps, creating a
deeper rift between Earth and offworld interests.

The hypercorps remained out of reach, however,
though they were not completely immune from


wy
v


?¢


3. 3.5: 5,3. 2 e


p


3.
2”
A


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a


s%)
o%)











\


|


=


-
2
a


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an coher }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





Earth’s troubles. The workers and colonists brought
from Earth transported many of their ethnic, politi-
cal, and socio-tribal grudges with them, leading to
several outbreaks of violence in habitats and orbital
stations. Some also harbored allegiances opposed
to hypercorp interests, illustrated by isolated acts
of preservationist sabotage and religious terrorist
attacks. Various criminal networks also came along
for the ride, expanding their black markets and vice
trades wherever humans went.

As the hypercorps expanded, so too did their politi-
cal opponents: the anarchists, socialists, argonauts
and others who worked diligently to establish their
own independent presence, mostly in the outer system,
further from hypercorp reach. The hypercorps even
contributed to this growth by sending their criminals
and undesirable elements into exile beyond Mars.

Both sides invested heavily in research and new
technologies. Advances in biotech, nanotech, AI, and
cognitive science were now moving so rapidly that
major breakthroughs were made on a yearly basis.
Developments in one field created a recursive boost
in the others, creating a feedback loop that spawned
immense technological improvements. Offworld,
genetic modifications were widely adopted, and new
transhuman adaptations became a common sight.
Sapient Als were born, equivalent to humans in intelli-
gence, sparking controversies over their use and rights
as persons. We even created new synthetic life forms
that were part biological and part robotic. Despite
some being so repulsed by this development that they
dubbed these new types of beings “pod people,” it cer-
tainly didn’t stop pods from being rapidly absorbed
into corporate workforces and brothels, nor did many
people care enough to support claims that, as sapient
beings, pods should have their own civil rights.

Two breakthroughs in this period deserve specific
mention, not least because of their impact on our
human—now transhuman—society. The development
of the first nanotech assemblers signaled a paradigm
shift for economics. Available only to the upper
strata of the hypercorps at first, these elites jealously
guarded these machines, capable of building almost
anything from the atoms up. They placed all sorts of
restrictions on their usage and availability, claiming
that the capability to construct drugs, weapons, or
other restricted items was a security risk that required
them to be strictly controlled. Open source advocates
promptly set to work undermining blueprint controls
and seeding their own open source designs, of course.
Likewise, within months, criminals and anarchists
liberated their own assemblers, and suddenly an
economic conflict was born. Some were put to use
feeding the black market trade, while others were
used to establish habitats and colonies with post-
scarcity economies that no longer relied on wealth,
property, or greed.

At the same time came the ability to map the human
brain and digitally emulate the mind and memories
made “uploading” possible—followed closely by


———
as
z=
lemme

Ss
=
=





the ability to download back into a separate human
brain or cyberbrain. The already long-lived hypercorp
masters no longer had to fear death by accident or
injury. This technology also made its way into the
hands of others, despite the costs. Experimentation
with other bodies—both biological and synthetic—
became a new playground for culture. And let’s not
forget those who willingly shook off the shackles of
the flesh to experience the virtual life and dive deep
into their own dreamscape realities.

While we all enjoyed our new toys, though, Earth,
poor Earth, continued to die a slow death. I can still
recall the speculation that it might take centuries for
the planet to totally slide into ecological devastation.
It was frustrating, everywhere you turned it seemed
that someone was lamenting the state of the mother-
world, but no one wanted to do anything. It was too
expensive, or too far away, or too dangerous. We all
have blood on our hands from that time. We stood
by and watched from our places in orbit as the world
burned around our brothers and sisters. We thought
we had time, we thought the world was slowly dying
and that we could find the cure. We didn’t plan on
the TITANs.

We all remember the Fall. It was only ten years
ago, but I never cease to be amazed at how confused
people’s memories are of that time. Part of that is
propaganda perpetuated by people like you, of course,
and part of it is that most of us are afraid to really
look back and examine how we humans managed to
fuck it up so badly.

We like to pretend that the TITANs exploded on
the scene, wrecked up the place, and then disappeared
as quickly as they appeared. The truth, as always, is
more complex. We claim to know that the TITANs
somehow evolved by accident from a military netwar
system, or so the theory goes. That is what their name
means: an acronym for Total Information Tactical
Awareness Networks. No one knows for sure where
these first seed Als came from, though—or if they do,
they’re keeping quiet. Perhaps the TITANs were inten-
tionally designed to be a recursively improving, self-
aware digital intelligence. Perhaps the military boffins
thought they could keep such an intelligence under
their control and that it would give them the edge
they needed. Perhaps there was only one at first, and
it quickly created hundreds if not thousands of copies
of itself. No one even seems to know how many of
them there were.

According to the written history—vetted by the
hypercorps, natch—we now know that the TITANs
took several days after they “woke up” to scan the
world around them, to learn about us. In their initial
stage they were relatively benign, leeching network
power and resources only where there was enough to
spare and extending their senses beyond their cradle
on Earth. Perhaps they were absorbing everything
they could to understand us. Perhaps they were indif-
ferent. Or maybe they really were planning to destroy
us, as the vids all say.





I remember this time. I remember that when this
new round of conflicts re-ignited on Earth, there
was no word of anything about seed Als or TITANSs.
For months and months, it was a simple escalation
of hostilities. It started with claims of netwar opera-
tions and major intrusions, sparking some alarm and
retaliatory attacks. Aggressive stances led to incrimi-
nations, then border conflicts and raids, followed by
missile strikes and outright hostilities. Old grudges
and sleeping enemies suddenly awoke and turned
their renewed wrath against old foes. Brush wars,
corporate rivalries, and ideological disputes flared up
as insurgencies and rebellions were suddenly every-
where. At the time, it seemed like a not-so-unusual
spate of violence had taken a drastic turn and was
rapidly spiraling out of control.

According to the party line, this was all a carefully
concerted effort, the first stage in the TITANSs plans.
Perhaps it was, though I remember some military
officials once claiming that the TITANs were brought
online because of this violence and not before then—
an opinion that was quickly silenced. Then again,
maybe we really were played—played by greater intel-
ligences who could barely be bothered to deal with
us themselves when they knew we were more than
willing to murder and annihilate each other.

When the first reports of strange automatic facto-
ries cranking out large numbers of robotic weapons
systems broke, no one knew who to blame, but clearly


something was wrong. This was a turning point, a
chance for transhumanity to realize that we collec-
tively faced a new enemy, but the finger-pointing and
direct conflict continued. Even when the first open
attacks by the TITANs came in earnest, crashing
major systems, taking control of critical infrastruc-
tures, and wreaking havoc and destruction, we treated
it as a new front in the war and never stopped taking
shots at each other.

There is still debate over whether we should have
tried to talk to the TITANs, whether they would have
been willing to listen to us, whether they even saw us





as something more than we see rats and roaches and
other forms of vermin. But it’s all academic. The fact
is we didn’t. The people who made the decisions, the
ones who had to put it all on the line at the time, saw
the TITANs as a threat. And they acted accordingly,
trying to purge them from their systems or capture
them for future study.

The philosopher Thomas Hobbes once spoke of the
war of all against all. Whatever he imagined could not
have been anything close to the conflict ignited by the
TITANs. We killed ourselves by the millions, wield-
ing the nuclear fire and the silent death of bioplagues
indiscriminately. Among this carnage walked the
TITANSs, taking control of our machines as though
we were children, harvesting millions of minds with
forced uploads for unknown purposes. Every strike
we launched against the TITANs was met with untold


A TIME OF ECLIPSE














\


|


=


-
2
a


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an coher }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





disaster and ruin, all our artifice and devices turned
against us in our moment of need.

The Fall was a horror. Factories sprang up like a
blight in the most ravaged and deserted places on
Earth, pumping out legions of dread war machines.
Advanced nanoswarms—far beyond our own capa-
bilities—infested everywhere, mutating to deal with
any threat they encountered. Biological nanoviruses
ripped through human populations, inflicting irre-
versible neurological damage. Potent infowar worms
penetrated even hardened systems, shredding our
crucial networks with ease. Prisoner populations were
rounded up for forced mind emulations, suffering a
luckier fate than those who were merely decapitated
by head-collecting drones or pierced by robots with
neuro-scanning proboscises. Neuropathic viruses
turned some humans into pawns of the TITANs,
turning them against the rest of us. Other reports
spoke of strange, alien happenings and unimagi-
nable terrors. We found ourselves fighting a rearguard
action against coming extinction. The plot of a
hundred novels and movies was made manifest in our
lifetimes, the doom of transhumanity at the hands of
the machines.

For over a year they stalked and destroyed us.
There seemed to be no hurry on their part to bring us
to an end, and why would there have been? Nothing
we did affected them. They were data and information,
they were thought and impulse, they were everywhere
and nowhere, and there was nothing we could do that
they could not turn back against us. Their influence
spread outward from Earth, with outbreaks in orbit,
on Luna, Mars, and many other places. Everywhere
we had a foothold, the TITANSs followed.

Perhaps you remember that point when it became
clear that transhumanity might not survive. I do.
Millions must have seen the signs. And so the great
diaspora began, the teeming masses doing whatever
they could to flee Earth. Ships were diverted, even
built, to help people escape. Those who could not buy
their way off the planet did their best to send their
digital backups, in the dim hope they could acquire a
new body. Perhaps one in ten escaped.

You might hear that we banded together to stop
the threat, that in our darkest hour we forgave
ancient grudges and simmering hatreds in the face
of extinction. That would be a lie in the face of the
ten thousand shot down over Buenos Aires by North
American forces as they sought to escape or the com-
promising of network security on over two dozen
habitats in Lagrange orbits by corporate competitors
as their rivals strove to fight off a TITANs attack. We
were just as gleeful to destroy ourselves.

Then, as quickly as they appeared, the TITANs
vanished. Over the course of a week, the attacks and
disturbances trailed off and then stopped but for an
occasional outbreak. The retributions and attacks by
our own kind continued for a few more months, but
the damage we did to ourselves was nothing com-
pared to what the TITANs had done.


——
mes ney
SS
—

—————
==
|





In the aftermath, we stood among the smoking
ruins of transhumanity and surveyed all that had been
lost. Of all the billions that existed before the Fall,
fewer than one in every sixteen survived, and of those
fewer still retained a corporeal form. Nevertheless,
the surviving habitats and stations were overcrowded,
with tensions high. Vast numbers of infugees circu-
lated online, as there were simply not enough bodies
on hand to accommodate them all. Some were placed
in permanent storage, where they remain forgotten.
Others were shunted into virtual reality, given no
choice but to live their lives in simulated environ-
ments. A lucky few were given the chance to work
as indentured servants, often to build new habitats,
working on the promise of a body of their own
someday. You’ve no doubt seen them, working in
cheap mass-produced synthmorph bodies in menial
or dangerous tasks, segregated from the rest of us.

Those left dead or bereft of a body were the least
of our problems. Our war with the TITANSs had left
the Earth a smoking, irradiated, toxic wasteland still
populated by dangerous machines and plagues. The
newly formed Planetary Consortium, composed of
hypercorp interests among the Martian and Lunar
colonies, placed Earth and the space around it under
quarantine. The official reason is that it’s for safety
reasons, allegedly to keep any remaining threats from
escaping Earth’s confines. Or perhaps we could not
stand to look at our homeworld in such a state and
face what we had done to ourselves.

Even now, ten years later, we are told that the Earth
is dangerous, that it holds risks and surprises. That’s
partly true, I believe—there are surprises alright, but
the Planetary Consortium wants them all for itself.

[Rustling noises, murmurs]

Of course I’m talking about a Pandora gate. The
one the TITANs left behind on Saturn’s moon was
just the first. You’re a fool if you think that there are
only five in the entire system. I’d be willing to bet
nearly anything that there’s one down there on dear
old Earth.

Have you ever seen a gate? No? Of course not. The
hypercorps keep them locked down. Not like out
in the wild, wild outer system. Sure, the Gatekeeper
Corp lets anyone with a death wish and the minimum
training take a jaunt through the original on Pandora,
but if you’re lucky enough to come back, they own
everything you find on the other side. I suppose it’s
the chance for a certain type of adrenaline junkie “to
boldly go” and all that nonsense.

The extrasolar colonies—now, those are an all new
frontier. You inner system types are so predictable
with your rush to colonize and expand and own
everything, as if the universe is just there for your
rich overlords to claim for themselves. I expect your
extrasolar colonies are expanding quite nicely, given
the sheer number of poor debt-conscripted souls
you toss through. You probably have grand schemes
of building galactic empires. Us. Transhumanity. A
galactic civilization.



































ECLIPSE PHASE TIMELINE


All dates are given in reference to the Fall.
BF = Before the Fall. AF = After the Fall.
(e.g., BF 10 = 10 years before the Fall.)


BF 60+


¢ Crisis grips the globe in the form of
drastic climate changes, energy short-
ages, and geopolitical instability.

e Initial space expansion creates sta-
tions at the Lagrange Points, Luna, and
NV FeTasMm Dam co) ole) iCem=.¢0) (0) e-] ele meyamnal=
entire system.


¢ Construction begins on a space elevator.


e Medical advances improve health and
organ repair. The rich pursue gene-
fixing and transgenic pets.


¢ Computer intelligence capabilities
equal and exceed that of the human
brain. True Al not yet developed.


e Robotics become widespread and start
to replace/invalidate many jobs.


e Modern nations expand their high-
speed wireless networks.


BF 60-40


e Efforts to undertake mega-scale geo-
engineering on Earth cause as many
problems as they fix.


e Major colonies established on Luna
and Mars; outposts established near
Mercury, Venus, and the Belt. Explorers
reach Pluto.


e First space elevator on Earth finished. Two
others in progress. Space traffic booms.

e Mass driver built on Luna.

¢ Terraforming of Mars begins.

e Fusion power developed and working
plants established.

¢ Genetic enhancements, gene thera-
pies (for longevity), and cybernetic
implants become available to the
wealthy and powertul.

e First non-autonomous Als are secretly
developed and quickly put to use in
research and netwar.

e Experience playback (XP) technology
developed and put into public use.


BF 40-20

e Violence and destabilization wrack the
Earth; some conflicts spread into space.

e Argonauts split from hypercorps, taking
resources to autonomist habitats.


e Space expansion opens up legal/
ag) (er-) im Coe) 0) ato) (eXsam co) am c=Xela me (21YZ-) (0) Oe
ment and allows for increased direct
human experimentation.


Maa leluatelamece)aliare melee) ans eLe\11 0) (=a ]aLe
available in some areas.


¢ Development of first transhuman species.


e First dolphins and chimpanzees uplifted
to sapience.


e Fusion-drive spacecraft enter common
usage.


e Extended colonization and terraforming
of Mars continues. Belt and Titan colo-
nized. Stations established throughout
the system.


e The starving masses volunteer them-
selves for indentured servitude on
hypercorp space projects.


e Augmented reality becomes widespread.


e Most networks transformed into self-
repairing mesh networks.


e Personal Al aides become widespread.


BF 20-0


e Earth continues to suffer, but the pace
of technology allows for some interest-
ing developments.


e Expansion throughout the system, even
into the Kuiper Belt.


e Transhuman species become widespread.


e Nanotech assemblers become available,
but are strictly controlled and jealously
guarded by the elite and powerful.


ao) e)(oy=Le flare m=lave mente l(elitlM-valelrclacel
of memory and consciousness made
possible.


e More species (gorillas, orangutans, octopi,
ravens, parrots) uplifted to sapience.


e Pods see common usage, amid some
controversy.


The Fall


e Simmering tensions on Earth escalate
into outright hostilities and warfare.


e The TITANs evolve from a high-level
distributed netwar experiment into
self-improving seed Als. For the first
few days, their existence is unsus-
pected. They advance their awareness,
knowledge, and power exponentially,
infiltrating the mesh both on Earth and
around the system.


Large-scale netwar incursions break out
between rival states on Earth, sparking
numerous conflicts. These attacks are
later blamed on the TITANs.


e Massive netwar ensues and major
systems crash as TITANs begin open
attacks and wage war with autono-
mous machines.


¢ Conflict quickly spirals out of control.
The use of nuclear, biological,
chemical, digital, and nanotech
weapons reported by all sides.


e TITANs engage in mass forced upload-
ing of human minds.


e TITAN attacks expand to other parts
of solar system, heaviest on Luna and
Mars. Numerous habitats fall.


e TITANs suddenly disappear from
the solar system, taking millions of
uploaded minds with them.


e The Earth is left a devastated wasteland,
a patchwork of radiation hotspots, ster-
ile Zones, nanoswarm clouds, roaming
war machines, and other unknown and
hidden things among the ruins.


AF 0-10


e A wormhole gateway is discovered on
Saturn's moon Pandora, presumably
left by the TITANs. Four others are later
found (in the Vulcanoids, on Mars, on a
moon of Uranus, and in the Kuiper Belt);
these are collectively referred to as
“Pandora gates.”


e Expeditions are sent to extrasolar worlds
via the Pandora gates. Numerous exo-
planet colonies established.


e First contact with the aliens known
as the Factors shocks the system.
Claiming to act as ambassadors for
other alien civilizations, they provide
little information about life outside
the solar system and warn transhu-
mans away from both seed Al and the
Pandora gates.


e An attempt to raise a generation of
children using force-grown clones and
time-accelerated VR fails miserably
when most die or go insane. Dubbed
the Lost Generation, the survivors are
viewed with repugnance and pity.


AF 10
e Present day. a








a,
























































SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an cone }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


Well, galactic squatters at least. That was made
clear when the solemn crossing guards of the cosmos
showed up and issued us a warning that we were
dabbling in Things What Ought Not To Have Been.
Maybe the Factors are telling us the truth, maybe
they are acting as ambassadors for a collection of
spacefaring alien species that want to warn us away
from Forbidden Technology—y’ know, the technology
we’ve already been burned by and of course have
no plans to actually abandon. Think about the Two
Commandments they have given us: thou shalt not
create self-improving AI, and thou shalt not use the
Pandora gates. Oops. Do you think they know? About
what happened with the TITANs? That even we don’t
know where they went and that we’re kind of afraid
to find out? Surely they know that we’ve been using
the gates and have spread beyond our little backwater,
and maybe that’s their real fear. But why do we even
listen to what some highly evolved slime mold tells us
to do anyway?

Taking risks, that’s the price of progress, no? Let’s
face it, we need some hope. We need a new Earth to
replace the one we destroyed, a place where we can go
and breed like rabbits and fuck it all up over and over
again. We need to know that we can expand beyond
this solar system, because right now it’s feeling a little
confining, like we could be easily trapped and wiped
out if the TITANSs ever return. We need to know that
we have a future. We need to know that we can make
it through our own efforts. That we won’t do our-
selves in on our own.

The Lost proved that. It was a noble objective, to
speed a new generation of children to adulthood, but
the process was flawed. Taking force-grown clones,
raising them in VR, and then dumping them into adult
bodies after they’ve only been alive for a few years
of objective time—but over eighteen years of their
subjective time? An entire childhood, having only
each other and Als for company. It’s enough to fuck
anyone up. It was a grand experiment, but it failed,
and now we have another reminder of our failures
living among us.

That’s us, in all our glory. Ten years after the Fall
and we remain a broken, squabbling mess, jailed by
slime molds, beaten by uppity software, and yet our
own worst enemies. Spreading out from a home we
don’t even have any more. Our numbers reduced and
dwindling further with each passing day. Who will
save us? We don’t even want to save ourselves most of
the time. Or so it seems.

But if we don’t, there’s no future. And I, for one,
have not lived this fucking long to give up now. You,
me, we’re effectively immortal. The entire galaxy is
waiting out there for us. We’d be stupid not to go see it.


= avomm Ig-Jakxe grey


um Il


THE SOLAR oUSTEM
AFTER THE FALL


Before the Fall, the solar system had a population of
approximately eight billion, with all but five million
of these people living on Earth. The Fall wiped out
almost ninety-five percent of transhumanity, and
today the population of the solar system is slightly less
than half a billion, with almost all of these transhu-
mans living off the Earth. The lifestyles of these people
were almost unimaginable thirty years earlier—the
vast majority are immortals living in sealed habitats
on hostile alien planets or in sealed space colonies, the
largest of which hold more than a million inhabitants
and are many kilometers long.

In this vastly changed setting with its vastly
changed inhabitants, the core concerns of trans-
humanity remain much the same. People seek both
material abundance and social status, and they wrap
themselves in various public and private ceremonies.
Like generations of humans before them, transhu-
mans separate themselves into different cultures
and subcultures, all of which enjoy a wide variety of
physical and virtual entertainments. Politics and eco-
nomics remain vitally important and, as always, those
who are wealthy, powerful, and famous have a large
degree of control over the lives of those who are poor,
relatively powerless, and unknown.


TRANSHUMANITY


Humanity as a concept has been replaced with
transhumanity. Most people now alive left Earth as
infomorphs and were subsequently resleeved into new
morphs. Bodies are things that can be modified and
replaced, much as someone can alter or exchange a
suit of clothing. Identity is centered in the mind, which
can exist as a disembodied infomorph living in virtual
worlds or dwelling in a vast array of strange and
exotic morphs. While there are bioconservatives who
resist these many changes to identity and physicality,
they are very much in the minority.

To most people, transhumanity has also been
expanded in scope to factor in non-human persons
such as AGIs and uplifts, though the rights and status
of these sapients is sometimes contested.

As transhumans continue to absorb the ramifica-
tions of this new way of life, they face a new crop
of problems and issues. Two of the largest and most
important are the increase in inequality and the splin-
tering and separation of transhumanity into many
different clades.


IMEQUALITY


The technologies first developed in the decade before
the Fall and refined in the decade after its end have
transformed humanity. In all but the most backwards,
impoverished, and repressive regions of the solar
system, the vast majority of humanity is smarter,








healthier, and richer than any humans
have ever been. Additionally, individuals
can improve their minds and their bodies
in almost any fashion their imaginations
can dream up. Those who can afford the
right augmentations can think faster, never
forget anything they have ever learned,
become mathematical savants, and heal
from injuries many times faster than an
unmodified human. When resleeving is
combined with implants, transhumans can
gain even more amazing capabilities—but
these benefits are far from free.

During the first decade after the Fall,
most of the surviving population was rela-
tively poor. Many were grateful to have
any morph at all. While the economic sit-
uation has improved, significant inequali-
ties remain and seem unlikely to change.
Hundreds of millions of people must
make do with very basic splicers (p. 139),
worker pods (p. 142), cases (p. 143), or
synths (p. 143), while a few million are
wealthy enough to have custom-designed
morphs created for them, complete with
all the augmentations they desire. These
same members of the elite live in luxuri-
ous villas and mansions, and in a few
cases privately owned asteroids, while
most other people must make do with
a few hundred cubic meters of dwelling
space. However, while inequities of living
space are ancient, the issue of economic
inequality producing inequities of physi-
cal and mental capacities is both relatively
new and considerably more problematic.

In regions using the old and transi-
tional economies (p. 61), differences
between the rich and the poor are
expressed in terms of money. In habi-
tats using the new economy (see p. 62),
wealth is meaningless and status and
Opportunity are denoted with reputa-
tion scores. In all three economies, some
people have more than others, and
because of this, technology allows the
better off to be better than the people
around them. Skillware lets people buy
knowledge and expertise, while multi-
tasking and mental speed implants allow
individuals to get more done at once.
Someone fortunate enough to acquire
large numbers of such augmentations
is capable of significantly more than
someone who lacks them, and so can
do even more to increase their money or
rep, thus serving to further perpetuate
inequality. This problem is less serious
in the reputation-based economies
of the outer system, however, as it is


|
| oh h


significantly easier to build reputation
through hard work and dedication. In
the rigidly controlled monetary econo-
mies of the inner system and the Jovian
Republic, class stratification is institu-
tionalized and upward mobility is largely
a myth.

As supporters of the status quo are
fond of pointing out, even the “have-nots”
are smarter and healthier than any previ-
ous generation of humans and possess the
same potential immortality as the wealth-
iest member of the elite. It is equally true,
however, that in many ways the divisions
between wealthy and impoverished are
significantly greater than they have ever
been, especially in the inner system. In
the past, the members of the elite might
be somewhat healthier and better fed
than the have-nots, but both rich and
poor still lived in relatively similar and
fundamentally human bodies. Now, the
very nature of humanity has been called
into question. The least fortunate can be
forced to inhabit bodies designed specifi-
cally for the pleasure of those wealthier
than them or even denied any body and
forced to live as infomorphs until they
can find some way to acquire a new
morph—typically by selling their services
to the highest bidder. Meanwhile, the
well-off can customize their bodies and
their minds, enabling them to accomplish
far more and to be considerably more
impressive and charismatic than anyone
lacking their advantages. These inequali-
ties may seem insurmountable, but some
anarchistic groups and even some entire
habitats have dedicated themselves to
reducing inequities by producing low
cost (and occasionally highly unreliable)
versions of many of the more impressive
morphs and augmentations.


CLADES AND SEPARATION


In many habitats, hyper-augmented elites
rule a mass of transhumanity that is
stuck using low-end morphs and minimal
augmentations (or even infomorphs
living in rented morphs), but this is not
the only option found in the solar system.
Transhumanity has splintered into a wide
variety of subcultures, some of which are
based upon an individual’s choice of morph.

Some of this separation is due to the
necessity of inhabiting difficult environ-
ments. Rusters are capable of breathing
the Martian atmosphere while Europa’s
deep seas call for morphs customized
for aquatic conditions. Many unusual





environments require those living in them to choose
from a very limited range of morphs.

There are dozens of specialist morphs designed
for specific uses and environments. A great number
of habitats are inhabited largely or exclusively by
individuals using a single type of morph or a limited
number of specialist morphs. In the asteroid belt and
in the rings and smaller moons of Saturn, there are
more than one hundred habitats that do not rotate.


These zero-g habitats are best inhabited by micrograv-


ity-adapted morphs like bouncers or synthetic shells that
maneuver easily with gas-thrust jets.

Sometimes, though, the separation of people into
clades of similar morphs is ideological in nature, such as
the rise of groups like the ultimates (p. 82) or some of
the separatist uplift communities that seek to define their
own space apart from human cultures. There are many
other habitats segregated into clades for other reasons,


including ones only open to residents with various
enhanced morphs like exalts or mentons. There
are even habitats where all residents must inhabit
morphs that are all clones of one another. In almost
all of these habitats, residents are free to add whatever
augmentations they wish to their morphs, but some
habitats forbid residents from changing their morph’s
external appearance, and individuals who violate this
rule are forced to leave the habitat if they refuse to
reverse these changes.

Some habitats do away with the necessity of both
life support and gravity, with all residents sleeved in
synthetic shells. Others are no more than massive
computers packed in a durable frame, where all of
the inhabitants are infomorphs who spend their exis-
tence in the habitat’s shared simulspaces or their own
personal virtual realities. When they need to interact
with the physical world, these infomorphs are free


FIRST CONTACT: THE FACTORS


Ironically, the first contact
between transhumanity and
alien life was made by a group
of isolates with no interest in
the rest of transhumanity. A
‘ola ial. <=)eloke)aatyer- Neel immal-lolie-1alla
the Neptunian Trojans, patiently
waiting out the prophesized
return of the TITANs, suffered
a severe life support systems
failure. Not expecting anyone to
respond to their distress signals,
they were simultaneously
relieved and shocked to have an
alien starship come to their aid.

Shortly after this event, three
unknown ships of alien design
simultaneously approached
Mars, Luna, and Titan, meshing
MAVA14 am Coxer-] Mala ane) a.¢mkom-lalalelelara=)
their presence and peaceful
Taye=yahd(o)arrum malelele lam aal-liar-laqn\c-]
Talnarslinana-lkX=10 t=] f-]eaame-lale mm ey-lalcer
their assurances of non-hostility
and the fact they had rescued
the brinkers allowed cooler
heads to prevail. Coming just
three years after the silent
hostility of the TITANs, the
new aliens were pleasantly
fate)abauala=t-1e-vallalep

O]UT Kel 4 hVamme Ul e) ol-1e muna - Lede) «yam
‘oXehd alm ol-Xer-10)1-m oh mma al -3 i amell- Tina
to act as ambassadors for an
assortment of alien civiliza-
1a keo}akwer-1 ale mmm ol-Ler-10)- mon muna alvin
interesting biology, initial
communications between


species were confusing and
jumbled. The Factors made a
lalurag) ol-1amovmmv(-11(-omic-laaliace cer-lare
expressed concern over certain
technological developments,
particularly unrestrained arti-
ficial intelligence. They have
refused entirely to deal with
digital entities and broken
o} mm alte fol ar-l areolar ma andame-lanicelal=
currently engaged in AGI
development. They have also
issued stern warnings against
use of the Pandora gates. The
Factors claim they were aware
‘oh mr-) ae Mule- uel aliavemmalelast-lalia/ancels
some time, but chose to wait to
make contact ... implying some
implicit fear of the singularity.

ii a\=W wr-Le1Xo) e-e(-t-] mae)aslant-1aell-1IhV
with multiple transhuman fac-
tions. Though they are often
dismissive of transhuman-
ity’s technological achievements,
they are interested in our sci-
Val ai ommel=\V-1 (0) ola at=lanam-lale mmo) a=t-1
throughs, particularly in the
biosciences, as well as our art,
history, and culture. They remain
1dfe]ayeniile)el-\em-] ofelUlmmaal-iare)uVamel ie
TPZ: dteoyam-) ale meld al-) ap.<-1 ale) aale) solely
1datelerel amd al-\ am al-hVi-mme) ammelaer- LiKe] a
traded alien artifacts of unusual
of-Sifelam- [aren el-reUlit-lamielaraatelammit
is widely assumed that these are
simply trinkets of limited value
and that the Factors are careful
ako) am Xome-Jar-]a-me-lanadaliare me) mmdaur=)








NiV(o)a dain commea-lal-ialelaar-laliayam ey-]ad(@0 pe
FlaWar-lanadaliaremeat-iamsal(elaiamela-lya ce
cally affect our growth.

Biologically, the Factors
appear to be some sort of
evolved slime mold colony. As
far as is known, they communi-
cate purely by chemical signals
and receptors, requiring any
Han-1e-Keaolamaviidammae-laialelast-lar
ity to be computer-mediated.
Several different types of Factors
have been sighted, implying that
they engage in heavy biological
faateeihite-halelap

Factor starcraft appear to
oX-mam Eke haha anere ei-ya-mmer-) oY-1e)(-mmoni
near-light speeds. Due to the
frequency of their visitations
to the solar system (2-3 times a
year), however, it is speculated
that they either have a nearby
base or that they possess the
‘of-) oF-] oI aL =m Ke) Mmr-/1k-) cadar-lataireralt
travel—or possibly they have
mr Jatele)g-Mel-1k-me)maal-]/me)ular

Given the wide dissimilarities
in psychology between transhu-
man species and the Factors it
would be presumptuous to spec-
ulate concerning their true feel-
Take kur-lalemr-\el)arer-mxe)\r- ce mae- la
humanity. It is hoped, however,
idar-himobvmeolanaialeliaremal=receldt-hdvelans
with them, transhumanity may
Kee] gam aate)acm-lolelehamdal-mal-ldula-me)i
the galaxy—and possibly even
(oll axe\ iam aleixe) aye a











to use one of the many synthmorphs that the habitat
owns and that the residents share among themselves.
Although considered quite eccentric to many and hor-
rifying to bioconservatives, habitats inhabited solely
by synthmorphs or infomorphs are among the least
expensive to build and maintain and are a low-cost
way for groups of infomorph refugees from Earth to
gain independence. Because individuals who choose
this way of life have likely already spent a decade as
infomorphs, this option often seems both familiar
and in many ways more comfortable than inhabiting
a living morph. As Earth becomes more distant in
transhumanity’s collective memory, its traditions and
social norms hold less sway and people feel more free
to create and use new bodies and new ways of life to
go along with them.


CULTURE AND SOCIETY


The Fall and its aftermath continues to be a major
influence on transhuman culture and society. Prior
to the start of the evacuation, more than ninety-nine
percent of the people who survived the Fall had never
been off Earth. For them, space was a distant realm
where other, more daring and adventurous people
lived, a place Earth dwellers only saw on videos.
Earth was their home. Then, in the course of a few
short years, hundreds of millions of people were
forced to leave their home planet behind. The fortu-
nate few first evacuees left with no more than a dozen
kilograms of possessions, while the vast majority
were infomorph refugees who escaped with nothing,
not even their bodies.

Today, transhumanity is divided into three groups.
The first group contains the true veterans of space
life, the less-than-one-percent of humanity that was
already living in space before the Fall. The second
group is the ten percent of the population that was
either born after the Fall or is too young to remember
living on Earth. The remaining eighty-nine percent of
the current population of the solar system lived gener-
ally happy and prosperous lives on Earth before the
Fall forced them to flee to safety. These refugees form
a powerful social force, but as time goes on memories
of Earth grow dim and people adapt to their new
homes and lives.


THE LONGING FOR EARTH


Most of transhumanity, especially those who were forced
to evacuate from the dying Earth, still mourn their
former home. Their longing for and nostalgia of Earth
has profoundly affected transhuman culture. Artifacts
from Earth, including ones as trivial as coins or bits of
dried vegetation, are considered treasured mementos
that have great economic and emotional value.

The interdiction of Earth makes acquiring such
artifacts quite difficult and dangerous. As a result,
the trade in Earth relics is a lucrative portion of the
black market, enough so that fearless scavengers are
willing to risk being shot down by a patrolling killsat


NOSTALGIA JEWELRY


As both a reminder and a visible marker of their
KoX-y mm avodant=it-lalepar-ei(e]alna(e- lana aleiag|e\-1q@reyma-aiele[-1-
from Earth wear jewelry containing a coin or,
more rarely, an old stamp from transhuman-
AYA-wa ke) aa al=)em aXeolagl-mmm ce) lui t-lalva aale\uam-malesie-) (ete
jewelry, most of these items are made into pen-
dants or lapel pins, but a few are rings. Before
the Fall, coins and stamps were largely curiosities
primarily of interest to collectors, having fallen
out of use forty years BF. Already scarce, few
were saved during the Fall as carrying such
useless mass off Earth during the evacuation was
discouraged or forbidden. A few extensive col-
lections already existed off-world, however. Even
so, less than a million authentic samples survived,
meaning the vast majority of people wearing
such items make do with exact copies made in
‘ofo) gal b(ee) o)f-lmant-(eallal- eu el d0l-] eel] ate) meae- 100] oe-1 6)
very expensive, meaning that some daring scav-
Valel=1a-w- lam Vil iale koma) qudal-miaic-iqe|(ed(olameym t-]aua


for the express purpose of salvaging relics. a


just to get to Earth, where they also face death from
numerous lingering dangers. The mesh is peppered
with stories of daring explorers who traveled to Earth
to retrieve all manner of priceless artifacts, as well as
an equal number of stories about explorers who died
or simply vanished on such expeditions. More than
one team of gatecrashers has funded their expedi-
tion through a preliminary relic-hunting expedition
to Earth, which serves to test their mettle while they
work to raise funds.

Nostalgia for Earth also affects the way transhu-
manity has redesigned itself. In the decade prior to
the Fall, transhumanity had begun to freely alter
itself. Radical body modification and the success of
commercial resleeving resulted in a growing number
of obviously non-human morphs. The vast majority
of current morphs, however, are relatively human in
appearance (if not always in internal structure). Even
for people too young to remember the Fall, asserting
individual humanity is an important part of post-Fall
culture. Some people keep a resemblance to the tradi-
tional human form as a remembrance of Earth, while
others do it to celebrate humanity’s victory over the
monstrous and inhuman TITANSs that attempted to
destroy them. With the exception of a few eccentric
groups like the ultimates, the majority of humanity
values looking human and preserving human tradi-
tions and institutions. Even the ultimates’ current


version of their remade morph is considerably more


human looking than the versions their predecessors
designed before the Fall. Even most synthmorphs,
which have no restrictions to size or form, are made
to look humanoid. There are a few radically inhuman
morphs like the novacrab, the arachnoid, and the


A TIME OF ECLIPSE











EY, A ce = f


oF - = ak
as 7 ae a4


[Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]

[Public Key Decryption Complete]

Ok, you asked, so I'll tell you. There are some elements within Firewall
that don’t buy into the TITANs-ran-amok-and-considered-us-a-threat
idea, or even that the TITANs are solely responsible for the Fall. These
people think that the TITANs found or encountered something when
they started their takeoff toward the singularity—something that
changed them. They point to the wide range of multi-vector viruses
that ran loose during the Fall and how even many of the TITANs
seem to have succumbed to these infections. They also reference a
disturbing number of accounts of events during the Fall that are inex-
plicable ... things like people being transformed into strange, alien
creatures ... or phenomena that seem to defy certain physical laws,
as if something was at times ignoring what we know of physics and
just doing whatever it felt like. Some of these voices within Firewall
even think that the TITANs may not have been responsible for the
Pandora gates. They have a name for this mystery infection. They call
it the “exsurgent virus.” dif


flexbot, but they are almost exclusively used for highly
specialized purposes. Until recently, anyone who used
one as their primary morph was considered deeply
eccentric (or worse), but attitudes have softened,
and these morphs are becoming more acceptable for
regular use.

This mixture of reverence and nostalgia for Earth
sometimes has a darker side. Individuals who choose
to have morphs that look visibly non-human expe-
rience a mild degree of prejudice in many habitats,
and militant bioconservatives denounce those who
look sufficiently non-human as being covert allies
of the TITANs. Uplifted animals also face significant
discrimination from many humans. These prejudices
are relatively common in the inner system and can
be quite extreme among bioconservatives. As a result,
uplifts and individuals who prefer inhuman-looking
morphs often live in separatist communities in the
outer system. In much of the inner system, uplifts and
individuals using a visibly non-human morph as their
primary or only morph are viewed with suspicion and
occasionally treated as second-class citizens. While
most habitats have laws mandating morphological
freedom and many also have laws making prejudice
based on morphological choice illegal, these attitudes
remain quite resilient.


FEAR AND PRRANOIK


The Fall left behind a persistent legacy of fear. This
has faded over the past decade, but a great many
humans still unconsciously expect the other shoe
to drop and the TITANSs to return at any moment.
Others worry that their agents are already among
them, preparing for the complete destruction of
transhumanity. The arrival of the Factors caused


widespread panic, and even today a substantial


minority of people assumes they are cat’s-paws for
the TITANs—or possibly their creations.





There are a few (often insane or deeply eccentric)
people who worship the TITANs or otherwise support
their agenda (including self-described “singularity
seekers” who hope to find and be uploaded by the
TITANs to join their ascension to super-intelligence),
but all of them must keep their beliefs carefully hidden.
Even now, expressing any support for the TITANs or
advocating the creation of self-improving seed Als is
illegal in most habitats. Anyone who does so runs the
risk of becoming the target of mob violence that the
authorities are unlikely to investigate too closely. Merely
being suspected of being a supporter of the TITANs,
or worse, someone who has been secretly infected by
them and is now their agent, is enough to get someone
shunned or even killed. While such incidents are now
far rarer than they were in the first few years after the
Fall, people who act too odd and who lack someone
with a sufficiently high rep to defend them or explain
their actions are occasionally killed, typically by being
thrown out an airlock. Those responsible for these
“spacings” are dealt with quite harshly in most habitats,
since in almost all cases later investigation reveals that
the victim had no connection to the TITANs.

There are also periodic rumors in many habitats,
especially small and isolated stations, that one or
more other habitats have been taken over by the
TITANSs, leading to a variety of inter-colony problems.
Such rumors are usually resolved quickly, but the
most persistent can seriously harm relations between
habitats. Claims that other stations are infested
with or even controlled by agents of the TITANs
are frequenly employed by extreme bioconserva-
tives hoping to demonize radical habitats populated
entirely by infomorphs or synthmorphs. As more
people manage to put the fear and horror of the
Fall behind them, such claims are less likely to be
believed. Unfortunately, people are still occasionally
infected by TITAN-created relics and actually become
their unwilling agents. Since such incidents are rare,
however, they have become easy to dismiss.


vv


REAL AND SOCIHL DISTANCE


Communications suffer a significant time lag
between asking a question and receiving an answer
due to the vast distances between most habitats—
with the exception of those using the rare and expen-
sive QE communicators (see p. 315). The time lag
ranges from a few seconds to several hours, and it
makes real-time communications between distant
habitats difficult or impossible. Communication
problems only serve to further isolate habitats from
one another. As a result, people socialize primarily
with members of their own habitat or cluster (if
their station is part of one of the various groupings
of between two and twenty habitats that abound
throughout the solar system).

Within a habitat or cluster, communication between
residents is effectively instantaneous thanks to the
omnipresent wireless grid known as the mesh (p. 234).
Anyone wearing a mid-range ecto (p. 325) or using
basic mesh inserts (p. 300) can communicate with
others in ways that go far beyond mere voice contact.
Both devices allow AR communications that are in
most ways barely distinguishable from in-person
communication, so people can effectively spend
in-person time with anyone in their habitat at any
moment when both of them are free and interested in
communicating. Unless someone deliberately wishes
to turn off communication because they are sleeping
or otherwise busy, people can always get in touch
with one another. Many close friends and romantic
partners regularly communicate anytime they have
a spare moment, sharing comments and jokes. This
communication is far more awkward and distant if
there is a time lag of several minutes between every
comment, so inter-habitat communication is never as
informal or close.

Though travel via egocasting (transmitting an ego
to another habitat, where it is resleeved) is as easy,
if not as cheap, as communication, a trip to another
station is considered to be a significant journey with






















































<<


Singularity seekers are those with
an unhealthy fascination in so-called
singularity events, such as the hard
takeoff of the TITANs to super-
intelligence. Some are part of a radical
sect of “exhumans” who believe
that transhumans are destined to
become godlike superbeings and are
determined to get there first. Others
act on a defensive impulse, believing
that the only way transhumanity can
survive another threat from beings
like the TITANs is by becoming as
hyper-intelligent as their enemies
are. Still other singularity seekers are





researchers or spiritual seekers who
are frustrated with the limitations of
their own minds and seek to become
something greater. Some of these
people become gatecrashers, search-
ing for advanced alien artifacts to help
them in their quest. Others experiment
with employing conventional technol-
ogies in new and exotic ways, such as
creating mentally linked networks of
forks or incorporating extra-fast and
powerful computers into synthmorphs
and pods.

A few of the most daring seek
artifacts left behind by the TITANs,


hoping to incorporate techniques
and technologies created by these
inhuman beings into their minds. This
last group is the most notorious, in
large part because of the spectacular
nature of some of their failures. On
occasion, these artifact hunters have
awakened devices that have lain
dormant for a decade and caused
local outbreaks of TITAN technologies.
These incidents have caused many
people to regard singularity seekers
as everything from potentially danger-
ous eccentrics to unknowing pawns of
ANS a


A TIME OF ECLIPSE





SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


\CTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A


44





a range of costs. Traveling individuals will no longer
be able to engage in real-time communication or
shared real-time entertainments with people back
on the habitat they left, so they will have to find a
new social environment. In addition to the trouble
and expense of acquiring a new morph in the new
habitat, the social distance between individuals and
the social network they leave behind is part of the
cost of travel.

Before the Fall, refugees from Earth were accus-
tomed to easily communicating with anyone else
on Earth. Wealthier individuals could journey just
about anywhere on the planet in a few hours while
still being able to communicate with everyone
back in their home city with no noticeable change.
The exodus of transhumanity from Earth, though,
means that an individual’s social world is only as
large as their habitat. Even a relatively brief com-
munication lag, such as the two to thirty seconds
that is the average time lag between any two of the
Jovian or Saturnian moons, greatly hinders the flow
of back-and-forth communication. When time-lags
are involved, most exchanges consist of messages
rather than any attempt at continuous conversation.
In situations where a more in-depth discussion is
necessary and time is limited, someone can send
a fork of themselves—a digital copy (p. 273)—to
hold the discussion remotely on their behalf and
then return for re-integration. Since there is already
a large time lag between sending a message and
obtaining any possible response, most people do
not hurry to answer messages from distant habitats
except in the most urgent circumstances, further
isolating people residing in distant portions of the
solar system.


THE RISE OF CULTURAL REGIONS


The only exception to the social distance between dif-
ferent habitats occurs when colonies are located on
or in relatively close orbit around the same planet or
moon. The inhabitants of Mars can all communicate
with one another instantaneously, as can everyone on
Luna or in Lunar orbit. However, the rivalry between
the various Martian city-states—and between the
primary hypercorp domes and the rural Martian
poor—imposes its own social distance. Individuals
from different city-states do socialize, but among the
elite social cliques, spending too much time commu-
nicating with members of another city-state is viewed
as somewhat odd and potentially even disloyal. As
a result, Martians tend to be relatively isolated even
from their close neighbors. Nevertheless, the short
distances between the Martian city-states and the
orbiting habitats mean that there remains a general
Martian culture that is different from the cultures of
the rest of the solar system.

Distance barriers have produced similar levels of
cultural differentiation in other portions of the solar
system. The colonies in the vicinity of both Jupiter


———
as
z=
iam

———————]
=
|





and Saturn each form a separate cultural unit, as do
the colonies in Earth orbit and on and around Luna.
The same is true for the Jovian Trojan and Greek
asteroids. In each of these regions, people communi-
cate and travel more between habitats and settlements
than they do with outside regions.

Social scientists refer to the different sections of the
solar system as separate cultural regions. The different
regions of the belt also each form a similar cultural
region, but because asteroids in different orbits even-
tually drift quite far apart, the cohesion and unity of
these cultural units is somewhat weaker. Habitats on
the edge of the solar system (around Uranus, Neptune,
and Pluto) form very small cultural regions, but the
few habitats in the Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud have
no cultural region since the distance between them is
so extreme.

Though communications between habitats within
the same cultural region is somewhat awkward due
to intra-regional cultural differences and small time-
lags, it is usually fast and easy enough for people on
different habitats to keep in regular contact with one
another. In addition, most habitats within the same
cultural region are sufficiently close that egocasting
between them is affordable by most people. In con-
trast, egocasting between cultural regions is relatively
expensive. Many social scientists predict that within
one or two decades, different cultural regions will
be at least as different from one another as distant
nations of Earth were from one another during the
first half of the 20th century—perhaps even more so
due to the physical alterations that cultures introduce
as they continue to evolve.


CULTURAL EXPERIMENTATION


While nostalgia for old nations remains a powerful
social motivation, the break from Earth led many
inhabitants of the solar system to experiment with
new forms of culture and society. Since the Fall
destroyed physical links with the past and the defeat
of the last Earth governments ended ideological ties
with the old political and social forces, many trans-
humans saw themselves as living in a new, free era
where the past was dead. Even people who always
wear nostalgia jewelry and spend several hours a day
in simulspaces set on old Earth are very interested in
the possibility of social and political experimentation.

Many of the most radical social experimenters
were drawn to the numerous small outer system
habitats created in the decade after the Fall, but
people interested in social and cultural experimenta-
tion can be found throughout the solar system. In
addition to playing with various interior structure
and design ideas, the inhabitants of many stations
experiment with all manner of unique social and
political rules. A few habitats do so quite deliberately,
either because the members are interested in social
innovation or because researchers associated with
a hypercorp or university have offered them goods








or services in return for testing one of their latest
theories. Such experiments have included establish-
ing stations where all of the residents are sleeved
in hermaphroditic morphs in order to measure the
impact on customs and language when gender is
abolished or spurring the residents of a particular
station to freely switch their morphs based on the
responsibilities and duties they have on a given day.
Such staged experiments are, however, relatively
rare—the vast majority of unique customs and social
structures that have come about since the Fall natu-
rally evolved from groups of like-minded individu-
als living together in the same habitat and working,
consciously or not, to make life better fit with their
aesthetics or ideology.


GENDER, SERUALITY. AND RELATIONSHIPS


To many transhumans, gender has become an out-
dated social construct with no basis in biology. After
all, it’s hard to give credence to gender roles when
an ego can easily modify their sex, switch skins, or
experience the lives of others via XP. Though most
transhumans still adhere to the gender associated
with their original biological sex, many others
switch gender identities as soon as they reach adult-
hood or avidly pursue repeated transgender switch-
ing. Still others examine and adopt untraditional
sex-gender identities such as neuter (believing a lack
of sex allows greater focus in their pursuits) or dual
gender (the best of both worlds). In bioconservative
habitats and cultures, however, traditional gender
roles persevere.

Sexuality has also expanded into new frontiers and
taboos. With basic biomods providing contraception
and protections from STDs, casual sex is the norm.
Many people pursue careers as well-paid compan-
ions and escorts. In fact, sexual experimentation is
standard thanks to several new technologies. Virtual
reality allows sexual encounters without physically
touching a partner, not to mention bringing all
manner of fantasies to life. For those that prefer the
touch of real skin, Al-driven pleasure pods can fulfill
any and all needs and are a legal form of prostitution
in many habitats. Sex-switching also lends itself to
new experiences, whether via biomods or a new sleeve.
Those who are particularly adventurous pursue sex
with robots, interspecies sex with uplifts, and stranger
things. Even AGIs, having been socialized as humans,
exhibit sexuality and desire.

The extension of lifespans and the decline of reli-
gion have drastically impacted social institutions like
marriage. Given the possible changes to both cogni-
tion and biology over a transhuman’s lifetime, lifelong
relationships are no longer considered realistic. The
idea of long-term relationships as a social contract
has grown exponentially. While this has resulted in a
number of marriages that are political or conducted
like a business transaction, most people continue
to view marriage as a bond of love and trust—an





emotional attachment that transcends bodies, as either
partner may change morphs at any time.


THE DIVERSITY OF HABITATS


The ability of a few thousand like-minded people of
moderate means to acquire a small habitat where they
can create their own society resembles the ability of
inhabitants of the United States in the 19th century
to set out for the West and found their own ideologi-
cally based communities. The primary difference is
that creating such communities is faster and easier in
the modern era. The mesh is filled with all manner of
virtual communities where members hope to eventu-
ally gather the means to create their own habitats. In
most cases, these are merely idle dreams; most partici-
pants are not willing to sacrifice the time and rep or
money needed. Occasionally the members try, only to
find out that some of the people promoting this effort
are con artists. Others succeed in building their own
habitat only to find their new society is not as idyllic
as hoped. An amazing amount thrive. A decade of this
sort of cultural experimentation by many hundreds
of habitats has produced a number of unique and
strange societies.

AS an example, there are, habitatsewhierc tne
inhabitants wear garments and AR images that cover
their bodies—and, in the most extreme cases, their
faces—and residents only reveal their morph’s true
appearance to their closest friends and immediate
family. There are also stations where all members use
cosmetic modification to adopt the same ideal look,
as well as ones where all residents use morphs that
are clones of one another. Some of the most eccentric
habitats are populated by extreme bioconservatives
overcome with nostalgia for the past, leading them
to model both their society and all visible technology
after some earlier period in history, typically some
time between zero and 50 years BF.

There are even a few habitats that totally dis-
regard commonly held feelings about forks and
merging. Such community members regularly split
off multiple forks when they awaken and plan their
day and then merge the various forks when they go
to sleep that night. Some forks remain infomorphs
for the day, while others use one of the various
morphs the individual owns or rents, which means
that each resident typically lives between two and
six separate lives every day. A few societies, like
the home of the infamous Pax Familiae, go even
further—all residents are forks of the same indi-
vidual. In some of these solipsistic habitats, the
forks are all expected to use cloned morphs, while
in others each fork is considered a separate person
who should go and forge their own unique life.
Some of the less extreme manifestations of this type
of habitat include places inhabited by families that
are partially or entirely composed of forks of one of
the members (the various forks tend to be treated
as siblings).


wy
v


?¢


3. 3.5.5.3. 2 e


p


3.
2”
A


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a


i>
Ol












LIVING WITH INFOTECH az


For anyone with basic mesh inserts (p. 300) oran ===


= TECHNOLOGY


Technology pervades all aspects of existence in Eclipse





ecto (meaning about ninety-six percent of the popu-


‘


™ 46


\


Phase. Most individuals understand that unless trans-
humanity suffers another event like the Fall or they
personally suffer some very serious and unfortunate
accident, they are unlikely to permanently die. More
people are now planning for a very long future. For
most people these schemes are fairly minimal, but they
often include an awareness that few, if any, relation-
ships are likely to last an entire lifetime. However,
functional immortality is only one of the many
wonders of the modern world.


lation), life is filled with data. For people with the
best implants, all information available on the mesh
is available at a thought. For everyone else, it only
requires a brief pause to access and understand it.
When someone pauses and looks a bit distracted in
the midst of a conversation, everyone understands
they are accessing data and lack the implants to allow
them to do this subconsciously or via multi-tasking.
As a result, when a group of people are discussing a
topic and no one immediately knows an answer to
a question, such as the title of a performer’s first vid,


i Nal-me|txeo)\(-1aVmelmsal- miles -lalelele-
(of-1K=mo]amesy-14 0] gam palete) alm ec-lalele)e-
shortly after the Fall was a
watershed moment in transhu-
man history. The prospects this
discovery raised were simultane-
olUKy hVami-ellar-1alale mr-larem<-leqnavdlale p
Oa me) al-mmat-valepmd-vel alate) (ole p (= amr-ls
loX=y¥co) ave me-Tahvadaliare muda-larveleleat-lar
ity was capable of were now in
(ol 0) am at-[avekvam Malm e-lhX-10 Ur (e) acme)
Wm alo)dr4o)amr-] au ol-)\ce)alem dal-m ale) angele.
of the Fall, where transhumanity
(oo) 0] (oi =»,4 oy-) alo mr-\el ge). Wal =m eos] 9 ale)
visiting wonders that were other-
wise perpetually far out of reach,
rWV(=1 aime) am al=r-]ecianvaste)ae-| em Olamual=
‘oh dal=)am at- [ale pam dal=mm elev) oi fiavamaar-1e
these gates were relics of the
TITANs could not be discounted.
Their existence opened the possi-
bility that the TITANs might one
oF Wac-1delgame)audar-lamne-laljalelaat-laliay
might still encounter them out in
the galaxy at large. The alterna-
tive was even scarier—that the
gate could be of extraterrestrial
olare liam: lace mm aar-)amaallale | mmantey a=)
(oF Tate(=celecm-lalemuarelanc-laliaremaar-lal
the TITANs might stalk the space
between the stars.

Various hypercorps, govern-
laalsaliyar-] ale mol ual-lanir-(eld(o)armualeoV
their brightest minds into solving
the mystery of these “worm-
holes.” Numerous scientific
communities pooled resources—
backed by private sector funds—
Vale Mel @-lol¢-10 Md al -me ccole (- Mov mm dal=
Pandora Gate in just over a year.
Not only was the gate activated,


OPENING PANDORA'S GATE


'o]U) am heel] (ou ol-ms o) cole la-lanlaal-rem Ke)
fo) oX=Ja exo) a) al=xeudLo) alma comm alll aa(-1cele5
distant star systems (one at a
time). Though these controls
were unreliable at best—connec-
tions sometimes closed without
Vc] a allave pure lale Melaal-lemaelUl(omalelmel=
idcrer=] I -xe Mad alolere)ammaal-\ yam at-[e mm olz\-10
opened before—the functionality
was stable enough to use them in
earnest. At the same time as their
i=] vam OU lo) icomr-Talavele lara -vanl-lanameelare
(=Taliaremealeex-lanliar-ler-\eal(=\Ucaalcale
1 a{=Gr-14=),¢-1-) 0\-] am Gola olele-lulela Myr b
formed overnight: a merger of
those same scientific communi-
ties and their financiers.

Less than a year from its first
fo) of=ye- 14 (eam dal=m aly ol=] cee) 4 ee) el-1al-16.
the gate to “gatecrashers:”
explorers who risk their lives to
see what lies beyond. Many of
these died horribly; some were
even lost forever, but a few made
fantastic discoveries such as new
Vo) aCe lcar- Talo mm al -\uVa hima Malelelelamarelar=
of the (living) alien life forms
encountered so far have been
sapient, many of the worlds are
habitable or within the possibili-
ties of terraforming. Along with
these wonders were found more
foftiaelaediate mualiale Som=\ale(-)aa-mey me
Kovatebrel=r-ome-II(-Jamel \VliP4-1d cola aual=
Iktomi) and signs that the TITANs
had passed these ways before.

Additional gates were soon
discovered throughout the
system. Unlike the spirit of
(foo) oX-1 a-ha kolammaal-ham le lamelelaler-re
the first gate’s discovery, these





others were seized as hotly con-
tested resources. Initially used for
research and exploitation, many
of these gates are now being
tasked for colonization purposes.
DYoy 4-1 a) mahi ale) male lale|q-reh wey m=». Core
'o)f-Val=amncy t=) a[e) awe] ave mae) (e)al(=-mat-\V=1
been established, some with
significant numbers. There has
'oX=\-) alm ated -\e @xe) mm oLelo) ake) axe (=1-) 01-) ce
ate individuals willing to risk life
on an alien world, if it means an
iota of improvement in their lives.

Though it is now widely ac-
cepted that the gates are the
means by which the TITANs evac-
uated the solar system (a hypoth-
esis which fails to answer why
they did so), they appear timeless
am sat=i|aeo)aryaauleid(o)amma-rer-] ae] (=155
‘ohm dal-lieme)a(eliavmdal-mel-1e--ma-lear-lia
(oe) aY =o) mm WaX=Weaalesjem 0) dy4-\0r-]alemel-lare
gerous of technologies.

The five known Pandora gates
within the solar system, their
KoXer-)d(o)al-yur-)alemdal-1] amee)aiage)iirare
entities, include:


e Vulcanoid Gate: Caldwell
AVAU] KetcVaveyrel> ees k-lae-Ler-al-cis

e Martian Gate: Ma’adim Vallis
(Mars)—Pathfinder/Planetary
olarxelaaielan

am -1alele) ¢-CT-1%- Fi ore) ale fe) ae!
(Saturnian system)—
(CT-) =), ¢=1-) ol) at eo) oF

e Fissure Gate: Oberon
(Ue Vale-TamyV14-100) eel RON-r- ale,
Rage Collective/Anarchists

e Discord Gate: Eris (Kuiper Belt)
—Go-nin Group/Ultimates a











within a few seconds everyone has this information.
Similarly, when someone walks through a garden,
with a glance and perhaps a brief thought or small
finger motion, they can call up detailed data on each
and every species of plant that sits in front of them.
Individuals going to remote areas that are out of
normal mesh broadcasting range almost always either
carry a farcaster-link or download massive archives
into their implants or ecto so they can continue to
access all the information they might need. Since even
a basic implant can hold vast amounts of data, lack of
storage space is rarely an issue.

Access to such an immense amount of easily avail-
able information has resulted in a variety of cultural
responses. Being able to quote from any vid, old
movie, book, or historical speech is now trivially easy
and can be done with a few seconds of thought. While
children and young teens often play by interjecting
large amounts of semi-appropriate famous quotes in
their speech, most adults only do so for emphasis and
in moderation. People who quote from other sources
too often are considered dull and unimaginative.
Recognizing such quotes is quite easy, since someone
can simply set their muse to alert them to the nature
and identity of all lengthy quotes they hear.

All experienced mesh users also learn (typically as
children and teens) how to avoid taking too much
time out from conversations to check facts or access
information via the mesh. Teens regularly mock their
fellows who pause too often or too long in conver-
sations to look up further information on a topic
someone mentioned or who spend too long trying
to assemble facts to support an argument. Terms
tke eainiceshcanour SOnmcdrooler arc used by tecus
to mock each other into learning how to be both
discreet and faster in their information searches, at
least when also interacting with others. While adults
rarely engage in the same sort of direct and obvious
mockery, people who get too lost in casual or conver-
sational meshbrowsing are widely viewed as socially


ae mathematical
vont

tir rh
a


inept. As a result, implants that allow multi-tasking
or temporarily speed up thought are in great demand,
since they allow individuals to do extensive research
and rehearse each statement they are going to make
without a moment’s pause. People who can afford
such accessories tend to seem more suave, charismatic,
and intelligent than those who do not.

All this means that those who lack all mesh and AR
access—individuals known as zeroes—present a stark
contrast to the rest of transhumanity. To most people,
zeroes seem slow, forgetful, and almost unbelievably
dense, while to zeroes, even people who only possess
ectos or basic implants seems brilliant, witty, and able
to comprehend things with almost inhuman speed.


GOING BEYOND THE ANOWN


One of the oddest experiences for gatecrashers and
others who explore unusual environments such as the
ruins of Earth is the unavailability of data. They look
at an alien plant or a TITAN-mutated person, and
their search returns various error messages meaning
that there is either no data at all on the subject or
that the only data is purely speculative and should
be regarded as dangerously unreliable. This can be
especially troubling when the subject in question is
a small creature that has just landed on the person’s
shoulder and the individual wants to know if it’s
harmless or deadly. Most people who are less than
sixty years old have never been in an environment
where they could not gain basic information about
everything around them at a glance. Learning to over-
come the shock of not knowing anything at all about
something is one of the first and most crucial skills all
gatecrashers must learn.


MUSES


Most individuals have a dedicated AI that serves as
their media agent. Commonly known as a muse, this
AI has been a lifelong companion for most people
less than seventy years old. Muses learn their owners’


ae |


s aD) Na = 83


on


Bo PAS
| gabe cae eee.
1 Meio? fo


FE 4 M PST TA 7





















































\


|


=


-
2
a


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an coher }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





tastes, habits, and preferences, and do their best to
make life and technology use as easy as possible.
Muses act as alarm clocks, data retrieval gophers,
appointment schedulers, accountants, and many other
functions often limited only by their owners’ imagi-
nations. Some of their tasks do not even need to be
assigned—muses are skilled at learning their owner’s
preferences and acting on them. For example, the
muse’s scheduling function may overhear in conversa-
tion that its user needs to be up in the morning and so
it will set an alarm without any additional instructions.
If a muse is uncertain about its owner’s preferences, it
asks, but after working with a user for a few decades
muses rarely need to do this. Most people keep mul-
tiple backups of their muse, because the loss of a muse
can be almost as traumatic as the death of a loved one.
Using a generic muse who must be informed about
all aspects of a user’s individual preferences and fed a
constant stream of instructions helps people appreci-
ate the value of their own personal muse agent. Muses
generally learn the basics of a new user’s preferences
in a month or two, but during that learning period the
user tends to be irritable and forgetful, since the tasks
they generally trust their muse to do automatically are
not being taken care of.


ATTITUDES TOWARD AGIs


The vast majority of transhumanity blames the Fall
on rogue seed Als (self-improving artificial intelli-
gences). As a result, any Als that are not crippled or
somehow limited from improving themselves—includ-
ing the AGIs (artificial general intelligences) that were
common and growing in number before the Fall—are
completely illegal in many habitats or at least heavily
regulated. The Fall ended only slightly more than a
decade ago, and many transhumans consider AGIs
and the TITANs that murdered their homeworld to
be one and the same.

In addition to strict anti-AGI laws, there have been
occasional riots and mass panics surrounding facilities
still performing AGI research, which has pushed most
such research into isolated settlements. Nevertheless,
there are still people passionately devoted to AGIs;
some see them as the next step in posthuman evolu-
tion, others value all sapience, and still others actually
worship them. However, AGI supporters have learned
to keep their opinions private in mixed company, lest
they be branded an agent of the TITANSs.

In some spots, mostly in the more anarchistic outer
system, attitudes towards AGIs are more relaxed and
AGIs may even be openly welcomed. These places
recognize that AGIs are not the same threat posed by
seed Als and it is unfair to punish one for the actions
of the other. Naturally, these places are havens for the
AGIs active in transhuman society, who otherwise
must disguise their true natures.

In the tightly controlled inner system, the hyper-
corps and the Planetary Consortium foster anti-AGI
sentiments both as safety measures and as protection
against possible competitors. This latter point is one


———
a
z=
\ommees

SS
—=——
——





of the things that makes them attractive to some
people in the outer system; they understand the great
advantages their factions gain ... assuming, that is,
that those AGIs share their goals and ideals.


ATTITUDES TOWARDS MENTAL ALTERATIONS


In the post-Fall solar system, technology can alter
people’s minds; controversy about many of these
alterations remains. Few people have trouble with
the idea of creating short-term forks using the multi-
tasking augmentation or some similar process that
insures the forks will be re-integrated within a few
hours. However, the idea of long-term forks, and espe-
cially of allowing forks to gain access to their own
separate morphs, troubles many people. Since there
are not enough morphs to go around in the first place,
providing morphs to a fork strikes many people as
selfish and wasteful. On the rare occasion that people
sleeve one of their forks, they typically provide it with
a synthmorph to avoid the social stigma associated
with using more than one body at a time.

Forks that exist for more than a few hours inspire
discomfort in many people because the forks begin to
diverge slightly in personality. Most people find the
idea of two different and distinct versions of them-
selves to be somewhat disturbing. While there are
habitats (mostly in the outer system) where forking is
a regular part of daily life and forks often exist inde-
pendently for a day or two, most visitors find such
habitats distasteful and bizarre.

However, while voluntary forking is still regarded as
somewhat odd, involuntary uses of this and the associ-
ated mental technologies are so horrifying that they
form the basis of much lurid crime fiction. Someone
being unknowingly mind-napped and having an invol-
untary—and often secret—fork created is something
that people regard with abject terror, despite it being
quite rare. Similarly, while mental surgery to correct
psychiatric problems or as punishment for various
serious crimes is frightening and disturbing in its own
right, illegal brain hacking draws horror and disgust
from almost everyone in the solar system. Penalties for
involuntary forking and mind hacking are exception-
ally high. In many habitats, they are among the few
crimes punishable by death (including the destruction


of all backups and forks).


TRAVEL


Travel between habitats and other transhuman colo-
nies is both exceedingly easy and fairly costly. Long-
range egocasting is expensive, as is acquiring a morph
at the destination. Travelers have developed various
ways around this obstacle; for example, if someone
only needs to visit another habitat for a few days and
is visiting primarily to engage in real-time commu-
nication, they often choose to remain an infomorph
for the duration of their visit and to communicate via
AR, thus saving all resleeving expenses. For visitors
who require a morph but will not be staying long,
most habitats offer the option of renting a generic





home habitat, waiting for their ego to return.


lend out their morph to anyone at all.


their transporters electronically.


or replacing high-end custom modified morphs.


PRIVACY


i splicer or synthmorph or, for a slightly higher cost, a
= generic exalt morph. Habitats or worlds with unusual
requirements, like Mars, Europa, or the various zero-g
stations offer rusters, bouncers, or other morphs mod-
ified for specific local conditions. These morphs can be
used for up to a week without difficulty, and using one
for up to a month is usually possible with sufficient
negotiation and payment. Meanwhile, the traveler’s
previous morph is kept in medical stasis back in their


Another technique is morph trading by people from
different habitats who know each other and who are
traveling at the same time. A few people do this with
strangers they meet on the mesh, but vids and other
entertainments are filled with tales of people having
their morphs or their identity stolen. A few of these
horror stories are based on actual accounts. Very few
people are willing to let anyone they do not know and
trust use their body, and many people simply will not


Some people, however, are willing, for a fee, to act
as a living “taxi” for a visiting infomorph, carrying
it around with them. In these cases the “ghostriding’
infomorph is not permitted to control their host’s
morph directly and is simply a passenger along for
the ride, issuing directions and communicating with


Travelers who wish to either immigrate to a new
habitat or visit one for several months or longer must
acquire their own morph. Usually, they reduce the cost
of acquiring a new morph by selling their previous
morph to a body bank. Alternately, some individuals
sleeved in expensive custom-designed morphs who are
traveling relatively short distances will rent a generic
shell for several weeks and arrange to have their old
morph shipped to them on a fairly rapid freighter.
Doing this is rarely more than a moderate expense,
which makes it less expensive than the costs of buying


Privacy is a prized possession for most inhabitants of
the solar system, but it is so rare that for many people it
might as well be a foreign concept. In the 20" and early
21“ century, privacy consisted of two concepts that
are now completely separate—the ability to remain
unnoticed or anonymous and the ability to avoid



































































>
















public record.

















SULARCHIVE SEARCH: LICAPACITA TING UPUTS


used a variety of AR and online intru-
sions that interfered with or even inca-
pacitated their targets. The most basic of
these were deceptive AR illusions made
to convince people that their physical
environment was very different from
what it actually was. This fooled people


eee, During the Fall, the attacking TITANs
G. &


into attacking their fellows or simply
instigated mass panic. More advanced
versions targeted the empathic ele-
ments of AR, triggering fear or other
emotional responses. Still others blasted
their targets with overbearing sensory
input, so strong that it bypassed filters
Tale MavilcelKexemalcvelce)(oye|(er=]mer-]nt-\e (em


services that are likely to be of legitimate interest to


unwanted intrusion. The first is largely absent from the
lives of most people in the present day. Anyone who
uploads anything to a non-private portion of the mesh
understands that anyone who wishes to do so can gain
access to it. Likewise, anyone who spends time in a
public place understands that anyone can learn where
they went, what they did, and what they said due to the
ubiquity of meshed, sensor-enabled devices. As a result,
everyone’s public life, both on the mesh and in person,
can be transformed into an easily searchable database.
Almost everyone keeps such a record of their own lives,
commonly known as a lifelog. Most people allow their
lifelogs to be public, understanding that anonymity is
now an archaic concept.

While the interiors of private dwellings remain
free from continuous surveillance, almost all habitats
have emergency sensors in every building providing
a full record of events to emergency service workers
and Als in case of problems such as a dangerous
chemical leak, a sufficiently large fire, an explosion,
loss of air pressure, or some other equally dramatic
and potentially dangerous event. Both the events of
the Fall and the fact that almost all of transhumanity
now lives in habitats surrounded by hostile environ-
ments mean that such sensors are standard fare. A few
habitats do not allow emergency sensors in private
dwellings, but most people regard these habitats as
potential death traps. These emergency sensors do not
record anything other than the absence of potential
dangers if they are not triggered by specific events.
This limitation allows individuals privacy within their
own residences—as long as they are certain no one
has planted a secret recording device in their home.
Ultimately, remaining unobserved is a matter of both
care and trust, and everyone understands that most
of the time everything they do will be part of the vast


In vivid contrast, the freedom to avoid unwanted
intrusion is carefully prized by the inhabitants of the
post-Fall era. Unwanted personal or data intrusion
into someone’s private dwelling or personal electronic
files is a serious crime in most habitats. Also, while
both the mesh and augmented reality are filled with
all manner of Al-mediated adware, most of it has
evolved to be relatively benign and to provide non-
intrusive suggestions about goods, information, and


Despite rumors and fears of so-
called “basilisk hacks"—visual or
other sensory-input attacks that alleg-
edly subverted transhuman minds by
exploiting the way brains processed
such data—no credible reports have
been verified. ae




























































<<


A TIME OF ECLIPSE





SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
\CTIONS AND COMBAT }


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





the targeted person. An individual’s muse filters out
unwanted advertising. While it is certainly possible to
create advertising that can hack through any muse’s
filters, doing so is usually illegal.

Unwanted AR intrusions are similarly limited.
During the early days of AR technology, there were
serious problems with users being overwhelmed with
unrequested and distracting input—as many said, the
mist got very thick indeed, so both law and custom
changed to prevent such invasions. Today, most people
expect to only experience data that they are looking for
or that they might be interested in and that any data
they are not interested in will quickly vanish. Being
surrounded by a large amount of unwanted AR data
is not just annoying and distracting, it is also deeply
frightening, because it means that there is a serious
problem with either the habitat’s mesh or the person’s
electronics—it could even mean that the entire habitat
is under direct attack by infowar weapons.


LOW-TECH EnISTENCE


More than ninety-five percent of transhumanity
inhabits artificially created morphs. Most of them also
possess basic implants, and the vast majority of the
rest wear ectos with retina displays and other simple
peripherals that allow the user to fully perceive and
interact with the vast network of information around
them. However, slightly less than four percent of the
remaining population inhabit flats or splicer morphs
without basic implants and also lack access to ectos
and other basic technologies.

Since an ecto is both a relatively trivial expense and
a piece of equipment vital to existence in the solar
system, the only individuals who lack such technolo-
gies stand on the very lowest rungs of the social ladder.
A few are the poorest members of the most marginal
habitats, but most are slaves or the next best thing.
The lowest social classes in the Jovian Republic lack
personal infotech access, as do people indentured to
the hypercorps and the Planetary Consortium, partic-
ularly on Luna and Mars. These individuals are either
indentured criminals or people sufficiently lacking in
useful skills that they are assigned mindless physical
tasks that cannot be more efficiently performed by Als.

The lack of mesh access makes these unfortunate
“zeroes” into mental and social cripples, unable to per-
ceive the vast wealth of AR that most people take for
granted. They are also unable to communicate with
anyone beyond the range of their voice or to access
almost all information, including traffic signals and
shop displays. When necessary, the managers and
overseers in charge of groups of zeroes allow them
access to handheld meshbrowsers. These devices
resemble the handheld terminals common in the early
21" century and have limited functionality, typically
forbidding communication and restricting mesh
research to carefully filtered topics.

Because of their inability to access AR or the mesh,
zeroes are almost completely isolated from every-
one else, meaning they are also unable to organize


———
a
z=
iam

—————]
=
|





effectively or to otherwise cause trouble for the
people who control them. In much of the outer system,
the existence of zeroes is considered one of the great-
est crimes against transhumanity perpetrated by the
Planetary Consortium and the Jovian Republic.


LIFE. DEATH. AND MORPHS


While death is no longer a certainty for transhumanity,
it remains a possibility. During the decade preceding
the Fall, most of transhumanity was growing used to
the idea that immortality was in their grasp. Then, in
just a few short years, the TITANs wiped out more
than ninety percent of us. Faced with the horror of
so much needless death, efforts to insure the lives of
surviving transhumans became a top priority. Now,
the technology of immortality—uploading, cortical
stacks, and other related wonders—is commonplace.

Today, most of the residents of the solar system
have adjusted to this fact (except for the most extreme
bioconservatives); everyone expects both to live forever
and to have their friends, loved ones, and enemies do
the same. While death is rare, though, it is still possible.
Severe accidents can destroy someone’s cortical stack
as well as their brain, and egos can also be wiped away
in punishment for sufficiently heinous crimes—though
the process of execution is considerably more difficult
than it had been a few decades earlier.

For most people (with the exception of those too
poor to afford a new morph), non-permanent death is
an annoyance equivalent to events that most people in
the late 20 century regarded as moderate misfortunes,
like a bad stomach flu or a broken arm. In almost all
habitats, if anyone is responsible for someone’s tempo-
rary death, either accidentally or on purpose, they are
also responsible for paying for the person’s resleeving
in an identical morph, especially if that person does not
have some form of resleeving insurance. People who
have temporarily died can expect to receive visits from
everyone they are at all close to after their resleeving,
as well as a host of e-cards and perhaps a few gifts
from their acquaintances and colleagues, all expressing
sympathy at their death and welcoming them back to
the world of the physically embodied. Exchanging such
“life gifts” is an accepted part of belonging to many
professions such as emergency service workers, where
members regularly risk temporary death.

Deliberately choosing to change morphs or to tem-
porarily become an infomorph is treated differently.
People typically spend at least a day or two between
deciding to change morphs and actually doing so.
During this time, it is considered polite for someone
to inform everyone they know well or work with
about their upcoming resleeving. Along with personal
visits, as well as calls and e-cards detailing the time
of the upcoming event, the person who is resleeving
is expected to include an image of what their new
morph will look like, so people they know will be
able to easily recognize them. However, it is consid-
ered gauche for someone who is upgrading to a better
morph to include details about their new morph.








LOST LORE


Ai av=mr-(eeU[ealel(-1e-rem @aley ivi (-lele[-m-lalemanl-\elt- me) m =t-/auar
Jer-lalalialemual=m alt icelavmeymua-larjalelaat-lamiait-liile(-1ara=p
is a vast and impressive amount. Even before the
Fall, many orbital settlements had acquired com-
fe) -1u-m a-ree) come) m-))mola-\ulolurmuag-larjalelear-lamce)a-m-lale|
(la =¥- NU AVN AY Aa aol LULell ale Iee) o)[ =o) mE =0V(-1 a’an oLoe) eum of- ll alte
Take puxolale Pail aaa AVam olaece)a-laapmeolalyo)(-mel-laa=em al=iVce
'ey-) k=) ome] alomant-let-P4lalom-] ace (=m dal- iam al-lem=nV(-1 am el=1-1 a)
1de-]acit-1ecre ml laicome|(elic-) mie) gaat-lemr-\M\(-1 | lt-\-m ef-[e.40] 0)
of Earth’s entire internet archives. Numerous
(ol=ru aU (ad hviomm eo) colele-laarmelali=t-ial-remel lalate maalom ar-11
fold aul ejc-romanl0(eameoymdaltmlaiie)aar-ldle) apm ale)y(-\\.-1em lal
some cases permanently wiping it from existence.
Hialcmaat=r-Jacmuar-)myiar-1ma-)ent-llameym st-]adakw-laealiVcre,
lalkike)avar-lale me f-lt- Mim ol- ine alvar-lavemlaleelanle)(-1n-mm\V[olae
survives, but some treasures have been lost. In
fey-}ad(ault-lemant=volt-Mige)aagmdal-M-le-Meymdal-m e-1|Miex-tme
fey-] acai t-la\mat-1ae moma) eal-m omer \-lamual-mae)aritic-lale
attacks the TITANs were making on information
systems. Proprietary data that was withheld from
1dal-wm 00] 0) i(emece)aat-liamm el-lallavemm=1 (ced gelalleme(-1a-\- areola
Earth is even more likely to have been lost, except
Xe) aar- Wn K=\"s\as NVA X=) cece) g ohm dal -i am ant-lat-[e[-[ommcommea-larvicle
1dai=liam =t-ladapsolelelavemel-le-melnayo)a(emiamélsalce
Retrieving lost data is a lucrative task for scav-
Tale l=) acme-] ale m-] cel al-ve) cole) 1pm dalolule] alm cole) aialve mdal=
(oF-Vavel=)ael0maelavilal-<meolm =t-]adame)axel-1a-) ams al-lolie- ie
destroyed during the Fall is a risky proposition.





2p)


Within a few days of resleeving, a “resleeving party
is typically held to introduce everyone they know
to their new morph. Depending upon how well-off,
well-known, and social the individual is, these parties
range from lavish affairs held in hotel ballrooms to
small intimate gatherings in the person’s home.
Permanent death is treated very differently. Because
it is both relatively rare and no longer expected, the
old funerary rituals surrounding death have faded
and new traditions have grown in their place. Since
every death reminds many people of the billions who
permanently died during the Fall, most of the few
funerals that are held honor both the person who just
died as well as the victims of the near-apocalypse.


ENTERTHINMENT AND MEDIA


A substantial amount of media survives the Fall of


Earth, and a significant number of modern transhu-
mans make their living creating new songs, stories,
reports, or other media. All of this is easily and swiftly
accessible through any basic implant, ecto, or (on very
rare occasions) archaic handheld terminal. However,
most of this media is not to the taste of any particular
individual, and vast amounts of it are mediocre. As
a result, most humans keep two layers of evaluation
between them and anything they might consider
exposing themselves to.
































SYNOPSIS






WELCOME TO FIREWALL






A TIME OF ECLIPSE





GAME MECHANICS








CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


The first layer is based on popularity and criti-
cal reviews. Every piece of media has a rating, often
weighted by the opinions of critics with high rep scores
who comment on their virtues and faults. Specialized
Als also evaluate the responses of consumers, so indi-
viduals can use reviewers they trust or they can seek
out media that is either widely or specifically popular
in their particular demographic and subcultural niche.

The second filter layer is the individual’s muse.
Muses learn their owner’s tastes and moods and
automatically search out and recommend various
sorts of media. Individuals can do everything from
asking their muse to select something they will enjoy
to asking for a something that will challenge their
opinions or looking at all current events news that will
be of interest to them. Muses use their understanding
of their user’s preferences, mixed with ratings and
reviews, to make their decisions. Individuals can even
set their muses to edit the media itself so that it better
fits with the person’s interests and preferences. In the
most extreme cases, this process can twist and edit
news so that it bears no relation to real events. This
same process is used to make the characters and dialog
in novels and vids more appealing. More commonly,
the muses merely edit out aspects of a news story or
article in which the individual is not interested.

Ratings, reviews, and muses allow individuals
to avoid media overload, but they also reinforce
subcultural barriers. A great many people only seek
out media and news that reinforces their existing
opinions and beliefs. Xenophobic individuals who
distrust all non-humans, from uplifted octopi to the
Factors, regularly view news stories and AR dramas
about evil aliens and devious uplifted animals who
commit heinous crimes. Similarly, individuals who are
only interested in their own habitat have all external
news altered by their muses so that it refers only to
the effects outside events will have on their station.

In a very real sense, individuals from radically
different subcultures and demographics inhabit


- METACELEBRITIES


\CTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A


| ll || it






completely different worlds. The one force that
works against this separation is the fact that many
people wish to follow the lives and opinions of those
with the highest reputation scores. In many cases, a
large portion of these individual’s high rep scores
comes from their interest in and willingness to inter-
act with (or at least acknowledge) a wide variety of
different sources of information. As a result, listen-
ing to opinions by a high-rep celebrity can expose
people to information that they might never encoun-
ter otherwise. Also, in many habitats, Als responsible
for media distribution tag some news as being suf-
ficiently important that it should be immune to filter-
ing by muses. This tagging is a regular and expected
occurrence in some habitats, while in others it is
reserved for only the most important and potentially
life-saving information. Bypassing muses for any less
important reason in these stations is considered a
gross invasion of privacy or even a crime.


POPULAR TYPES OF ENTERTAINMENT


The most popular forms of electronic entertainments
are vids, vid games, VR worlds, XP, and AR games.


VIDS AND VID GAMES


Vids are high-resolution audiovisual entertainment
that can be augmented with fully immersive sensa-
tions such as smell, touch, and taste from the point
of view of one of the major characters. Viewing them
purely via sight and sound is much like watching an
old 20th-century film, except that it’s interactive and
in 3D. In contrast, full sensory viewing is like being
present in the story.

Most modern vids have variable theme and prefer-
ence settings enabling viewers to adjust the content of
what they are watching, including the level of violence,
the amount and type of sexuality they prefer, and the
appearances of some or all of the major characters. In
addition, many vids have alternate endings for people
who prefer happy, bittersweet, or grim endings. Two





As the culture industry quickly discov-
ered, biotech and resleeving technology
clashed with the media's ability to focus
the spotlight on specific icons. When
everyone can be bodysculpted, the
beautiful people need to be more than
glamorous faces. More to the point, the
public's interest in celebs faltered when
famous people repeatedly changed
their looks and were no longer immedi-
ately recognizable.

One of the ways big entertain-
ment has responded is to promote
“metacelebrities"—icons based on


characters rather than real people.


Each metacelebrity has their own
(very expensive) unique customized


morph, but the person sleeved within
that morph often changes. The actress
Angelique Stardust, for example, once
existed as a real person, but is now
a character who has been played by
over a dozen people since the original
rose to stardom in AF 3 and promptly
sold off her celebrity character rights
to Experia. Likewise, award-winning
heart-breaker Juan Nguyen is a con-
structed persona based entirely on the
action hero star who died and was lost
during the Fall. Many metacelebrities
are modeled on fictional characters;
notorious bad girl Sun Mi Hee is no
different offscreen than the ass-kicking
villain role that brought her to fame,


never traveling anywhere without her
iconic pair of glowering smart leopards.
Actors taking on a metacelebrity role
often undergo psychosurgery to better
play the part.

Metaceleb personas are strictly
managed and marketed as a media
product to appeal to specific consumer
groups. Though they play an active
role within hyperelite circles, many of
the genuine glitterati view them with
humor at best, disdain at worst—
though some have learned the hard
way not to underestimate or mess with
the small armies of media engineers
behind each metaceleb's carefully
crafted image. r















people watching the same vid could have very differ-
ent experiences if they use radically different settings.

Vid games are like vids, except they are much more
flexible. In vid games, the viewer not only experiences
the story with the protagonist—they become the pro-
tagonist, shaping the story through their own actions,
similar to sophisticated early 21*-century console
games. Some games allow the participation of up to a
dozen individuals or link thousands of players via the
mesh, while others are designed for a single player.
The degree of freedom in vid games varies. Some are
almost fully interactive realms similar to VR worlds
with all but a few characters controlled by Als, while
others are considerably simpler and more limited
with player interaction limited to a few crucial deci-
sions. The precise dividing line between vids and vid
games is blurry, but together these media remain the
most popular forms of entertainment, with scenarios
set on Earth before the Fall being especially prevalent.


AP


Experience playback (XP) is a specialized type of
media that consists of the recorded sensory impres-
sions of a single individual. Almost all of the inhab-
itants of the solar system lead relatively quiet and
risk-averse lives and are naturally eager to be able
to vividly experience adventures such as climbing
Olympus Mons, spending a day in one of the most
luxurious and exotic private habitats, going on a scav-
enging mission to Earth, or gatecrashing. There is also
a thriving fringe market in less savory XP, including
records of people committing all manner of violent
or dangerous crimes and XP of actual gun battles
between well-armed criminals and law enforcement
personnel, which often end with the death of the
morph providing the point of view.

Anyone with mesh inserts can create XP of their
experiences, and anyone with an ecto or mesh inserts
can access the sensory recordings. Selling a particu-
larly exciting XP, such as a record of the first meeting
with the Factors, can bring in a lot of money or rep.
Most XPs consist of both sensory recordings and the
surface thoughts of the individual who made them.
Many people who access XP are only interested in
the sensory recordings and feel that having another
person’s recorded thoughts and emotions in their head
is intrusive and uncomfortable so they filter them out.
However, some hardcore XP aficionados feel that
accessing the full XP, including the recorded thoughts
and emotions, makes the experience more immersive
and real.

A significant minority of XP fans becomes fasci-
nated with one or two daring people who regularly
sell XP, known as X-casters, viewing all of their clips,
including both the experiences and the accompany-
ing thoughts. Some of these XP fans become more
interested in the person who recorded the clip than
in the individual experiences, and they often come
to believe that they have a special, clear understand-
ing of this person, to the point where they strongly





identify or even fall in love with them. In addition,
individuals who access XPs from a single person often
enough sometimes begin to mimic various habits and
figures of speech. Particularly popular X-casters are
commonly disturbed when they see tens of thousands
of people imitating one of their more idiosyncratic
expressions or habits.

A few serious fans—known as Xers (pronounced
“ex-ers” )—alter their morphs to resemble their favor-
ite X-caster. Some obsessive Xers actually attempt to
contact and stalk certain X-casters, perhaps hoping
to become part of an actual XP clip. In most habitats
and subcultures, Xers are widely regarded as having
particularly dull and meaningless lives. Hardcore
Xers are often viewed as being insecure and poten-
tially unstable.


HR GAMES


Augmented reality (AR) games involve players inter-
acting both with events in the physical world and
augmented reality imagery that recasts the people
and objects the players see. For example, instead of
seeing another player in a splicer morph and ordi-
nary clothing, a player of an AR game might see a
horrific rotting zombie, a bizarre alien life form, or
a well-armed soldier. These games tend to be locally
focused within a particular habitat or city so players
can interact when they are within physical proxim-
ity, but some games link habitats within the same
cultural region.

The nature and intensity of these games varies
widely. Long-term games might involve people
playing the role of deep cover spies or some other
exciting and unique role for months on end. Players
may pretend to be anything from time travelers
attempting to prevent some horrible disaster to
covert agents attempting to uncover plots by TITAN-
infected people on their habitat who happen to be
camouflaged as snack designers, personal assistants,
and other mundane citizens. During their daily lives,
players exchange messages with each other as well as
with the people running and maintaining the game.
Some of these long-term AR games have gone on for
many years, with the oldest being almost twenty years
old, predating the Fall.

Short-term AR games, on the other hand, last
between several hours and several days. The people
running these typically rent out a hotel or a park
and various public buildings for the duration. These
games are almost always highly dramatic and consist
of everything from the players having to deal with
a massive zombie attack or alien invasion to them
participating in some simulation of an event on Earth,
like the storming of the Bastille during the French
Revolution. While such AR games can be consider-
ably less detailed than VR worlds or vid games, many
players value the “realism” of being physically present
during the game.

Since participants in AR games take actions in the
real world, including actions that could be disruptive


3.5: 5,3. ?
1?
~~


3.3"
er
A


p


‘Y
Y





-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a











SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
\CTIONS ano coMeat }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





or even dangerous, designers of AR games take great
care to prevent problems. In some early AR games,
most of which took place more than twenty years
before the Fall, players were occasionally seriously
injured. A few unscrupulous AR game designers used
their scenarios as cover for actual robberies or acts
of terrorism that were abetted by unwitting players
who thought their actions were simply part of a game.
Since that time, law enforcement observation drones
have kept careful track of people playing AR games.
In almost all habitats, people running AR games must
register their games with local law enforcement or
face serious fines.


Va WORLDS


Virtual reality (VR) worlds involve the creation of a
large and highly immersive simulated environment—
a simulspace—where the major characters are played
by transhumans and NPCs by Als. Unlike vids or vid
games, simulspaces are specifically designed for a
large number of participants. VR worlds consist of
everything from duplicates of various eras of Earth
history to elaborate and strange fantasy worlds with
magic, dragons, and similar wonders. All manner of
alien worlds or settings based on oddities like time
travel are also common. As is the case with vids, the
most popular simulspaces are those set on Earth some
time before the Fall.

VR worlds can have from dozens to tens of thou-
sands of participants. For the best experience, many
users prefer to access simulspaces through hardwired
server connections as they offer better quality and
less disruptions than accessing wirelessly via the
mesh. Since people immersed in virtual reality are cut
off from their bodies and often thrash around, most
users ensconce their morphs in a tank or special couch
for the duration. VR parlors typically offer private
hardwired pods for participants to physically jack in.
Many habitats also have hardwired systems used just
for this purpose, so users can experience VR from the
comfort of their own dwellings.

Due to distance and communication lags between
habitats, even the most popular online simulspaces
run each habitat as a separate realm, limiting interac-
tion with users in other habitats/realms. The popular-
ity of VR worlds like Gilded Empire, set in England
in the 1880s, means that someone moving from one
habitat or world to another could continue playing in
the same game, albeit with a new set of players.

One of the other unusual features of VR settings is
that a large number of infomorphs, including many
infomorph refugees, play these games. As a result,
while even most novice players can learn to easily tell
the difference between a character played by an AI
and one played by an actual person, there is no way
to know if the person playing a character has a physi-
cal body or not.


———
as
z=
imme

sa
=
|





PHYSICAL ENTERTAINMENT


In addition to a vast array of electronic and electroni-
cally mediated entertainments, people also still enjoy
a wide variety of physical sports, ranging from soccer
to new sports like low-g air races, where the par-
ticipants strap on wings and engage in tests of speed
and acrobatics. The ability to both fix any injury in
a healing vat and to remove a cortical stack from a
dead or dying body and place it in a new morph has
given rise to a new variety of extreme sports. Starting
a decade before the Fall, various individuals realized
that, barring unlikely circumstances, they could not
die unless they wanted to. This set off a brief trend
in extreme sports and even a few wealthy suicide
hobbyists who repeatedly killed off their current
morph in a variety of unusual ways. The Fall and
the permanent death of more than ninety percent of
transhumanity greatly reduced the interest in playing
with death for many years. Killing yourself just to
experience death is considered mildly distasteful
to most, and many believe such actions belittle the
mass deaths of the Fall. Though interest in risking
death in the line of entertainment has been growing,
deliberate suicide remains an eccentric and dubiously
regarded hobby.

In some subcultures, dueling has been a popular
fad for almost a decade. Swords, knives, and pistols
firing single-shot soft lead bullets are all popular
choices, because none of these weapons poses any
threat to a cortical stack and most do not instantly
kill someone hit by them. However, there are other
more exotic options, including aerial duels with
microlights fitted with blades on their wings. On
rare occasions, duels take place in space, with the
participants wearing non-armored vacuum suits.
Certain criminal groups make money with under-
ground dueling circuits, pitting biomorphs against
robots against uplifts. The seedier circuits engage
in pit fights featuring illegally acquired backups
sleeved into non-sapient animals, often outfitted
with lethal cybernetics. Such creatures are typically
quite mad.

Dangerous non-combative sports are also popular.
The highest levels of competitive rock climbing on
Mars are regularly done with no safety equipment.
There are similar climbing competitions in many
habitats using artificially constructed climbing walls
as well as regular free-running competitions through
almost every city and habitat. Also, there is an entire
class of sports, including both diving and parachut-
ing, where perfection of form is seen as a far more
important goal than avoiding injury or even death.
As a result, current high dive records for morphs not
specially modified to survive high impacts are held by
individuals who required either time in a healing vat
or resleeving immediately after their successful break-
ing of a previous record.





POLITICS AND POWER


Politics is just as important in the colonies spread





throughout the solar system as it was back on Earth,
but it is also radically different. Each habitat or cluster
of stations is a separate political entity, and many of
these habitats are fiercely independent. The only loca-
tions where large political entities can exist are on the
marginally habitable worlds of Mars and Titan, and
the population of Titan is significantly smaller than
that of many of the largest pre-Fall cities on Earth.


THE IMMER sYSTEM


Though nations no longer exist, they have been
replaced by new political-economic entities that may
well have been on the road to dominance even if the
Fall had not occurred. While there are many indepen-
dent habitats and settlements in the inner system, it is
largely under the thumb of the hypercorps. To reduce
conflict between themselves and promote the survival
of transhumanity, some of the hypercorps formed an
alliance known as the Planetary Consortium. This
entity governs most of Mars and is in charge of the
ongoing terraforming project. It also controls dozens
of other habitats throughout the rest of the inner
system (and even a few in the outer system). This
means the Planetary Consortium rules over more than
forty percent of the surviving transhuman population,
making it the dominant power in the solar system. The
other major polities in the inner system, the Lunar-
Lagrange Alliance and the Morningstar Constellation,
are also heavily influenced by hypercorp interests.

In) the waitcmmath ot ties alls thesbypercorps
established three important goals: rebuilding the
solar system, protecting themselves from any further
attacks (either by the TITANs or any other threats),
and growing in both wealth and power. The hyper-
corps and the Planetary Consortium are exceedingly
skilled at attaining all of these goals. Since popular


wih


rebellion and widespread dissent complicate these
interests, the hypercorps are also adept at making
certain the inhabitants of the habitats and planetary
settlements they control are safe, relatively content,
and, ideally, unable to cause serious problems.

By extension, the second goal means they also help
protect the surviving transhuman population against
any repeat of the Fall. As the largest and most well-
organized entities in the solar system, the Planetary
Consortium and other inner-system governments are
in an excellent position to protect the people living
in their habitats and settlements. This protection,
however, comes at the price of freedom. The transi-
tional economies (p. 62) used in hypercorp-controlled
settlements ensure that most citizens are relatively
well off and need not fear starvation or serious want.
Many hypercorps strongly oppose bioconservatism
(with some exceptions, notably among the Lunar-
Lagrange Alliance), and so anyone who can afford
various augmentations or morphs is free to obtain
them as long as none are equipped with weaponry
that can be used to harm a habitat or large numbers
of its inhabitants. In return for safety and relative
prosperity, however, citizens give up the ability to
voice more than token criticisms of the hypercorps.


THE POWER OF THE WUPERCORPS
AND THE PLANETARY CONSORTIUM


The Planetary Consortium is the only major non-local
political entity in the solar system (with the possible
exception of the Autonomist Alliance, which is more
of a mutual aid pact than a unified polity). All of the
others are based in a single specific location.
Likewise, the various hypercorps transcend loca-
tion. Though some are quite large, rivaling the old
megacorporations of Earth in size, the majority of
hypercorps are small and specialized with few physical
assets, leveraging the capabilities of Als, infomorphs,
and robotics and communication technologies. Some


wy
v


?¢


3. Z.5:5,3. 2 e


2


p


<<


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a





3.
p\








\


|


=


-
2
a


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an cone }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





maintain staff and work forces large enough to popu-
late multiple habitats, but most rely on few employees,
instead contracting with freelancers or other hyper-
corps. Many business projects consist of multiple
hypercorps networked together; temporary and even
ad hoc business alliances are a common affair, with
multiple hypercorps partnering towards common goals.

Thousands of dedicated hypercorp manufacturing
and processing installations can be found on Mercury,
Venus, and other equally resource-rich locations scat-
tered throughout the solar system. Well-known facili-
ties include Starware’s vast shipyards, the largest of
which are located on Luna and the asteroid Vesta, and
Omnicor’s huge antimatter factory orbiting Mercury.
There are many other lesser-known facilities, includ-
ing the automated mines that the mysterious Zrbny
Group maintains in the Main Belt and Saturn’s rings
and the qubit factory Nimbus maintains in Mars
orbit. Many hypercorps eschew macro-manufacturing
and instead focus on developing new technologies and
new cornucopia machine templates.

Aside from the numerous public hypercorp factories
and labs, there is an impressive number of secure and
often secret research installations, some of which are
so well hidden that they are normally only accessible
via highly secure egocaster connections. All manner
of mysterious and often highly dangerous research
occurs in such locations, ranging from experiments
with the relics of the TITANs to attempts to create
self-replicating nanotechnology or artificial miniature
black holes. Vids and vid games are filled with stories
of exotic disasters in such research stations and of
heroic thieves stealing amazing wonders from them.
While the reality of secret corporate research bases
is normally far more prosaic, sometimes wonders are
created—and there have been occasional disasters,
often involving TITAN artifacts.

Some corporate headquarters are similarly secure
and secret, including the corporate headquarters
of the fabled Zrbny Group. There are a wealth of
rumors and stories about such locations. Intrepid
spies, thieves, and reporters regularly attempt to gain
access to these facilities, generally without success.
Many attempts, especially by would-be thieves and
spies, end with distinctly negative consequences,
including the thieves’ temporary (and on some occa-
sions permanent) deaths.

Hypercorps also own and manage a number of
habitats. Many are primarily homes for hypercorp
employees, but in others large portions of the popula-
tion are ordinary (non-employee) residents. Though
far less controlled than hypercorp research or manu-
facturing facilities, these colonies are also subject
to greater regulation and security than some of the
autonomist-controlled habitats on the edges of the
solar system.

These stations are exceptionally safe places to live.
Residents have access to all of the latest products
produced by the ruling hypercorp (or conglomerate
of smaller hypercorps) and its corporate allies. These


———
ae
z=
imme

——————
=
=





habitats all either possess their own security forces
or have some form of defense contract with a private
security company, such as Direct Action or Medusan
Shield, who agree to protect the inhabitants against
potential threats by agents of the TITANSs, fanatical
saboteurs, and other threats.

These same security forces also protect the hyper-
corps from any threats to their interests. In most of
these habitats, residents have fairly open freedom
of expression and biological self-determination.
However, all potential threats to the hypercorp and
its personnel, ranging from attempted sabotage to
simple civil disobedience, are dealt with quite harshly,
with serious offences resulting in forced indenture and
occasionally forced mental editing (see Psychosurgery,
p. 229). Almost all of these habitats use a transitional
economy (p. 62) and most residents have a high stan-
dard of living to compensate for the limits on their
behavior. Many inhabitants of the more independent
colonies in the belt or the outer system complain
about the repressive nature of the hypercorp-con-
trolled stations, but residents of these habitats prefer
the safety and security found there to the intimidating
freedom of the outer system.

To help reduce dissent, residents of settlements
and habitats controlled by the Planetary Consortium
(and similar hypercorp-dominated polities) can vote
on a wide variety of issues. The results of these votes,
however, are only binding on issues that are not
considered “matters of habitat survival,” “corporate


be)


policy,” or “security concerns,” which effectively
includes anything related to the profits and pro-
ductivity of the hypercorps involved. Votes on these
matters are purely advisory, meaning that they are
utterly ignored when the results are at odds with
hypercorp agendas.

While residents of these settlements and habitats can
vote about adding a new holiday to honor some impor-
tant figure or the location and design of a new park,
laws regulating indentures, colony security, law enforce-
ment, or other important concerns remain under the
control of the hypercorps. This does not mean, however,
that the results of elections are completely disregarded.
If more than two-thirds of the population strongly
supports a particular issue, the Consortium or the
hypercorp controlling the habitat usually finds ways to
modify their current policies to address these concerns
without harming their own interests. In contrast, if only
a small number of residents are upset by certain policies,
then these wishes are ignored and corporate security
forces keep an eye out for possible civil disobedience or
other forms of resistance.

Outside of these dedicated installations and wholly
owned habitats, many hypercorps maintain offices and
mesh presences in stations and planetary settlements
belonging to other polities. The larger hypercorps
have offices and branches all over the solar system,
serving the needs of people from Pluto to Mercury
and all places in between, while even smaller outfits
advertise their services via the mesh on any habitat











they can. Almost every habitat has a Nimbus office
with a farcaster and, in the case of larger colonies, QE
communicator facilities for instantaneous communica-
tion. Both facilities are open to anyone who can pay
Nimbus’s fees. Hypercorps offering ubiquitous services
and products like environmental systems, cloning,
body bank services, banking, spacecraft maintenance
and repair, and so on can be found on most habitats.
In smaller habitats, these offices are unobtrusive, if not
entirely virtual, and managed by limited Als or inden-
tured infomorphs. While postings in small habitats are
often rather dull, the infomorph usually has a contract
guaranteeing them a morph and resleeving in the
habitat of their choice in return for a term of service,
which typically ranges from three to five years.

Every habitat interested in interacting with the rest
of transhumanity has at least one automated Experia
media node (among other news and entertainment
outlets). Most Experia media nodes are managed by
indentured infomorphs that monitor the local news-
finding Als and keep track of any important or inter-
esting developments. Experia and similar news sources
rely heavily on crowdsourced journalism, paying small
amounts for live feeds from any freelancers that happen
to be on-site reporters as important events occur.

Similarly, all but the smallest habitats have offices
where individuals can hire security consultants, body-
guards, or even mercenaries from hypercorps such as
Medusan Shield, Direct Action, or their thousands of
competitors. These contracted security personnel range
from simple Als and guardian angel bots to highly
trained mercenaries in fully equipped fury morphs.
While additional forces can be farcast in, many of
these security specialists are locals who live on the
station and sometimes hire short-term contractors
to help with especially large or difficult assignments.
Skilled mercenaries may eventually be hired full-time
by larger corps like Medusan Shield or Direct Action,
but since contractors are usually given the most dan-
gerous and thankless parts of any assignment, many
soon lose interest in hypercorp freelance work.

Other employees working out of local hypercorp
offices range from nanofabrication programmers to
for-hire scientists and technicians to personal finan-
cial and media advisors to the wealthy and powerful.
In important habitats and planetary settlements, as
much as twenty percent of the population consists of
hypercorp employees or private contractors who are
hired on a short-term basis when the local workload
exceeds the capacity of the regular population. These
workers are in the unique position of having dual
loyalties—to both their habitat and their employer.
Despite what hypercorp propaganda preaches, the
two interests do not always overlap.

Because of the delays involved in normal communi-
cation, local heads of hypercorp offices usually have a
great deal of autonomy, since asking for instructions
from their superiors on another habitat or installation
requires either dealing with a time-lag or using expen-
sive qubits for instant QE communication. As a result,








i” ee We —“‘“CsisOS


except for the most important or difficult problems,
local directors deal with all local matters on their own,
reporting any unusual or potentially problematic deci-
sions afterwards.


THE OUTER sUSTEM


Out beyond the orbit of Mars, the influence of the
hypercorps and the Planetary Consortium is far more
limited. With the exception of the rigidly authori-
tarian Jovian Republic, the inhabitants of the outer
system have considerably more freedom than those
living in the inner system. However, even out here
the struggle between the desire for freedom and the
longing for safety forms an important part of the
political discourse.


THE LIBERTARIAN AND UTOPIAN LEGACIES


Various forms of anarchism and similar libertarian
ideologies were quite common among the first trans-
humans who settled space in the two decades before
the Fall. Many settlements in the outer system have
inherited this legacy of freedom. The new frontier
opened by space colonization presented a fantastic
opportunity for those with a strong desire to avoid
the authoritarianism of the hypercorp-controlled
inner system and Earth to pursue social organizations
more based in equality and collective action or even
to simply experiment with new political models. Out
beyond the belt, hypercorp influence was weak and
preoccupied, giving resourceful colonists a chance to
explore their interests unmolested. The more radical
of these elements grew out of or maintained ties to
progressive, anti-authoritarian, and left-wing social
movements and insurgencies on Earth, drawing
support where they could. Others simply stole hyper-
corp resources from the inner system and smuggled
them to their secret projects. In a few cases, entire
ships or stations mutinied, refusing corporate orders
and pursuing their own path. It was rarely feasible for
the hypercorps to pursue and punish such subversion.
Even among these radicals, differences existed, so
that those adhering to similar sociopolitical tenden-
cies tended to group together. Over time these have
developed into four rough groupings: the anarchists
of Locus, the technosocialists of Titan, the anarcho-
capitalists and mutualists of Extropia, and the
nomadic free-for-all societies of the individualist scum.
These factions form a loose alliance, a united front
against the hypercorps and Jovian Republic—or as
they call it, the Jovian Junta—and a pact for mutual
aid and support, known as the Autonomist Alliance.
Among the more anti-capitalist habitats, the cen-
turies-old doctrine of “from each according to their
ability, to each according to their need” is a living and
vital philosophy. The ready availability of cornucopia
machines ensures that no one wants, and the use of
reputation systems encourages people to be active par-
ticipants towards the common good. Equitable access
to morphs and augmentations is also available for resi-
dents, though the demand from so many infomorphs


wy
v


?¢


3. 3.5: 5,3. 2 e


p


3.
2”
A


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a


O1
~











\


|


=


-
2
a


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an coher }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





in need of a body means that infugees must contribute
and build up social capital. However, even for an info-
morph, egocasting across the solar system is expensive,
and the Planetary Consortium produces large amounts
of propaganda about the dangers of these habitats to
discourage infugees from considering escape.

Many autonomists consider themselves to be
engaged in an ideological conflict with the inner
system, a memetic cold war that sometimes extends to
physical actions. Some willingly pursue campaigns of
sabotage and subversion against hypercorp and other
authoritarian interests, such as smuggling cornuco-
pia machines into habitats where nanofabrication
is strictly regulated, like among the Jovian Republic.
The hypercorps and their allies occasionally strike
back, though open conflict is rare. Even though the
inner system and Jovian Republic could theoretically
field enough military might to subdue the autonomist
factions, an uneasy détente exists. Rumors abound
that the anarchists have some sort of card in their
pocket that keeps their opponents at bay, perhaps
even some threat of mutually assured destruction.

Concerns over security and potential future attacks
by the TITANs also impact matters in the outer system,
but most people resist attempts to seriously restrict their
personal freedoms in any manner not directly related to
maintaining their safety. Inhabitants of the outer system
still remember how the old governments’ demands
of adherence to bioconservativism and allegiance to
distant and often unresponsive leaders did nothing to
prevent the Fall from happening, and that memory
fuels their mistrust of those states. Those powers were
undone by failing to deliver what they promised—when
they could not provide the security that they claimed
their authoritarian measures would bring, the seeds of
their defeat in the outer system were planted.


SPACE FOR ERPERIMENTATION


Both social and political experimentation are common
in many of the smaller habitats of the outer system.
Because collective decision-making is fairly easy in
stations with populations of less than ten thousand,
direct democracy is a common method of govern-
ment. The combination of collective decision-making,
radical ideology, and experimentation has also led to
some habitat populations adopting unusual forms of
government (or non-governmental organization).

The individual variants that have been tried are
too numerous to list, though they generally fit into
a few general categories. A few relatively small habi-
tats employ limited forms of authoritarianism. Some
have a single leader who has great power, but who is
(ideally) kept from abuse or excess through the use
of limits such as a list of constitutionally guaranteed
rights or the ability of a relatively small number of
people to call an election or a vote of confidence.
Some colonies using this model have elected dictators
who serve for a limited term, while others are ruled
by a single charismatic leader who transforms their
habitat into a cult of personality.


———
ae
z=
imme

——————]
—=——
—





Other habitats choose their leaders by random lot,
with every adult who can pass a relatively easy com-
petency test being eligible to be the colony’s leader
for a period that usually ranges from six months to
five years. A few habitats are governed by powerful
specialized Als, which in very few cases are actually
hyper-intelligent AGIs. Several colonies populated
by purely informorph or synthmorph inhabitants
use special high-bandwidth connections to give their
members access to each other’s surface thoughts
and emotional reactions, allowing them to hold vast
democratic political meetings where everyone present
can feel the general emotional reactions of all of the
other members as easily as they can feel their own.

There are a vast number of different types of gov-
ernment, many of which have never existed before,
moving (and sometimes fumbling) ahead in the outer
system. Some work far better than others, allowing
successful colonies to thrive and making much of the
outer system a vast and complex political laboratory.


HEEPING THE PEACE


Each habitat is responsible for dealing with its
internal affairs. As a result, standards of justice
vary widely from the oppressive police state of the
Jovian Junta to the free market judicial courts of the
Extropians in the belt to the community justice poli-
cies of the anarchists out beyond Saturn. Travelers
are strongly encouraged to check up on the legali-
ties and policies of stations they are visiting so as
to avoid unfortunate incidents, though muses are
generally quite good about maintaining awareness
of local conditions so that they can warn their users
before straying into gray or illegal territory.

In the inner system, standards of justice and law
enforcement tend to be uniform and very familiar to
the majority of the population that lived on Earth
prior to the Fall, where most nations had relatively
similar arrangements. Across the entire solar system,
similar policies can be found. Though local laws may
differ, there is widespread respect for the idea that
punishments for religious or ideologically based laws
only apply to residents. Visitors who violate such
restrictions or other minor laws are simply deported
to their home and forbidden to return. Standards of
evidence for criminal investigations are also common.
Modern forensic technology makes collecting and
analyzing DNA and other trace evidence an excep-
tionally swift and easy process. Likewise, with almost
all habitats having what amounts to total surveillance
of all public places, any potential offenses committed
there can be carefully analyzed.

Standards of privacy vary widely from one habitat
to another, so during emergencies or crime investiga-
tions, law enforcement officials may or may not have
total access to detailed recordings of the events in any
portion of the habitat including data from sensors in
private dwellings. In some stations, law enforcement
officials can compel everyone who might have been





present during an alleged crime to provide downloads
of their sensory experiences from the time of the crime.
While individuals can edit their memories, discrepan-
cies between various people’s sensory recordings are
just another form of evidence. Requiring sensory
downloads from witnesses and suspects is common
practice in habitats controlled by the Planetary
Consortium, the Jovian Republic, and most hyper-
corps. However, in most habitats in the outer system,
law enforcement officials have no access to such
records and can only compel sensory recordings from
people who have been charged with serious crimes.

The power of modern forensics is such that a
sufficiently careful examination of people and
laces Cain Ouren cheering ime ineliiie OL al cine
and the perpetrator(s) with relative ease. Decisions
of innocence or guilt rarely rely upon suppositions,
circumstantial evidence, eyewitness testimony or
any of the other notoriously unreliable forms of
evidence common in past centuries. The best way for
someone to avoid being convicted of a crime is to
either prevent anyone from learning about the crime
or to make certain that no one suspects them as the
perpetrator. Once someone guilty of a crime becomes
a suspect, there is a very significant chance that law
enforcement officers will be able to uncover reliable
evidence connecting them to the crime. However, if
there is no obvious evidence connecting a specific
suspect to a crime, the criminal has a greater chance
of escaping discovery.


LAW ENFORCEMENT


Law enforcement in the solar system consists of a
vast patchwork of separate jurisdictions, occasion-
ally united by various treaties. Most habitats have
signed the Treaty of Uniform Security that requires
either extradition or on-site trial of criminals who are
accused of especially serious crimes such as attempted
habitat destruction, use of incapacitating infoware
(including basilisk hack attacks), or any attempt to aid
the agents of the TITANSs in taking over or destroying
a habitat. Only the Jovian Junta and a few especially
antisocial or anarchic habitats have not signed this
treaty, but many habitats in the outer system maintain
the right to try offenders accused by other habitats
rather than extraditing them. Most habitats also
require a significant amount of evidence before they
are willing to extradite one of their residents.
Outside the Treaty of Uniform Security, there is
nothing remotely resembling a uniform code of justice
and no widely recognized police force. Instead, each
habitat or cluster maintains their own legal code and
cadre of law enforcement officers. In most areas, law
enforcement is a respected and honorable profession
paid for by the government, but in a few, the only
options are private security agencies that only protect
individuals who subscribe to their services. Among the
anarchists and scum, residents are largely responsible
for their own protection, which means they may be
constantly armed when in public (depending on local
conditions). Depending on the stations, the most








SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
\CTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A


60





someone who its the victim of a crime can do may be
to go after their attacker or post a bounty. In others,
mechanisms exist for community or collective problem-
solving that often involve assembling an ad-hoc group-
ing of peers to assess the situation, offer non-biased
judgment, and sometimes pursue collective action.

The only widely accepted law enforcement offi-
cers that attempt to maintain jurisdiction across the
solar system are bonded investigators and security
consultants from companies such as Medusan Shield
or Direct Action. Both organizations have contracts
with various hypercorps and inner system stations to
provide security. However, in the outer system and in
other regions not controlled (directly or indirectly) by
the hypercorps, the status of these officers is far more
tenuous. In habitats that do not have security con-
tracts with their organization, the best these agents
can do is act as bounty hunters.

Due to extensive stories of excesses in the inner
system, many colonies frown on freelance bounty
hunters—often referred to as ego hunters—and may
ban them entirely. Others allow agents from licensed
security hypercorps to act as ego hunters, but forbid
them from extraditing or otherwise restraining or
punishing the criminals they are pursuing. Instead,
agents are required to turn over evidence so that the
habitat’s own judicial system may hold a trial, in
which case a convicted person may be remanded to
the agent’s custody. Law enforcement officers expe-
rience similar difficulties attempting to apprehend a
suspect who has fled to another habitat.

Closely allied habitats in the outer system usually
allow full or at least limited legal powers to visiting
law enforcement officers from their allies. There are
also various small private security organizations that
work closely with local law enforcement offices to
provide inter-habitat security between colonies that
are not closely allied. The members of these organiza-
tions attempt to maintain sufficiently high rep to earn
the respect of all the habitats with which they work.
They act as both bounty hunters and unbiased inves-
tigators in situations that can sometimes involve mul-
tiple legal systems. Most of these security companies
are located in the outer system and their jurisdiction
tends to be limited to a single region, like the middle
belt or the Saturn system. Organizations that attempt
to grow larger usually come into direct competition
with larger hypercorps such as Medusan Shield and
Direct Action and are subsequently either bought out
or undercut and discredited.

Bounty hunters and private investigators are also
available on many autonomist habitats, some of
whom are highly reliable. Others are known for their
extreme moral and ethical flexibility, especially if the
pay is sufficiently high. On some stations and scum
ships, these private contractors can be hired to simply
go on board and abduct or execute a resident as long
as this person has a low enough rep. Attempting
to abduct or kill a respected member of the com-
munity, however, rapidly earns the ire of the entire
habitat. The various small-scale or private security


———
=e
[nl
So

——=
Ss
=
=





organizations from the outer system can sometimes
pursue subjects to habitats controlled by the various
hypercorps or the Planetary Consortium. Doing so
requires background checks, security screenings, and
often moderately large payments.


PUNISHMENT


Among the autonomist colonies, forced exile or repay-
ing the victim with an equitable amount of goods or
labor are the principle punishments for all but the most
heinous crimes (those being attempted mass murder,
habitat destruction, attempting to create seed Als or
similarly extreme actions). In the collectivist anarchist
habitats, antisocial behavior typically involves expul-
sion or reputation penalties, though solutions that
involve making amends and rehabilitation are often
pursued over standard punishments. At the other end of
the spectrum, people convicted of more serious crimes
in the most violent and lawless habitats are executed
and all of their known backups destroyed. In many
others, exceedingly serious crimes are usually dealt with
by giving the criminal a choice of forced uploading into
a humanely outfitted but isolated computer prison or
mandatory personality modification—assuming that
someone has not simply killed the criminal before
they were brought to justice (such killings are gener-
ally treated as matters of self-defense). Mandatory
personality modifications are generally limited to the
absolute minimum necessary to prevent the individual
from repeating similar crimes.

At the other extreme, punishments in hypercorp-
controlled habitats and settlements controlled by the
Planetary Consortium range from fines paid in either
money or labor to periods of involuntary indentured
servitude ranging from several months to many years.
Violent crimes, especially ones threatening either
important hypercorp employees or the habitat as a
whole, also result in mandatory personality modifica-
tion. Such modifications often include the creation of a
strong sense of loyalty and obedience to the hypercorp.

Punishments are even more draconic in the Jovian
Republic, where permanent execution and the destruc-
tion of all backups is the most common punishment
for serious crimes against the leaders or large groups
of the populace. Since the rulers of the Republic
are strong bioconservatives, personality editing and
forced uploading are rarely used. Forced indenture is
very common, however, as are more standard forms of
imprisonment. The Republic is one of the last places
in the solar system that has physical prisons.

The vast majority of other habitats fall somewhere
between these extremes. Punishments for non-violent
crimes consist of enforced repayment, where the
offender must work off a debt to their victim(s) or
face more serious punishments. Instead of enforced
indenture, offenders usually must only work between
five and twenty hours a week for their victims and
only need to do so until the crime has been suitably
repaid. The typical repayment is between two and
three times the value of the good or service taken
from the victim.





THE ECONOMY


Leaving aside the struggles of bands of primitives to
survive on the ruins of Earth, all of transhumanity has
at least some access to the wonders of nanotechnology.
This access is highly variable and the economic ben-
efits it produces can be divided into three broad cat-
egories—the old economy, the transitional economy,
and the new economy.


THE OLD ECONOMY


The old economy is essentially the same sort of indus-
trial consumer capitalism that has been in place since
the late 19 century, a system centered on manufac-
turers who create material goods and sell them to
consumers. Modern manufacturers now make their
goods in cornucopia machines instead of factories, but
the essential pattern is the same one that has existed
for over two hundred years. Due to the high level of
inefficiency and unfairness in this economic system,
poverty is relatively common. The poorest individuals
often face hunger, homelessness, lack of medical care,
and similarly dire problems.

Ordinary members of this society never have direct
access to cornucopia machines. Instead, they pur-
chase their goods from corporations, governments,
or wealthy individuals who control them. Some old
economy societies have planned economies, where the
corporations or the state determine what options the
citizens may choose or occasionally what goods they
must have. Others claim to have a free market, where


citizens have more options, but the residents must still
pay to obtain goods that are essentially free for the
corporations or government to produce.

In the present day, almost no one willingly lives in
old economy societies. Very few individuals even visit
such societies. The oppressive Jovian Republic holds
most of the remaining old economy societies in the
solar system. The few other surviving examples are
totalitarian regimes where the wealthy elite maintain
absolute control of all cornucopia machines and
private ownership of one is a very serious crime. Since
cornucopia machines can be used to create more
cornucopia machines, maintaining strict control over
them requires constant vigilance.

Residents of old economy societies tend to look at
the people of transitional and new economy societ-
ies with envy, while citizens of both transitional and
new economies look upon old economy habitats
with a mixture of horror and pity. Since the Fall,
almost a third of the remaining old economy-based
habitats have transformed into transitional or new
economies by various means, often involving violent
revolution. Most social scientists predict that unless
there are further catastrophes, all but the most
repressive old economy societies are almost certain
to transform to transitional economies within
twenty to thirty years.

Old economy societies are unique in that money is
the society’s only acceptable means of exchange. While
reputation networks exist, they are informal and serve
as an unsanctioned means of exchanging favors.


‘


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a











—— |


~


= ° as


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
\CTIONS ano coMeat
MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A


62


THE TRANSITIONAL ECONOMY


The transitional economy is a far more stable and
easily maintained system than the old. Transitional
economies blend old and new economies, and habi-
tats using this system feature both private ownership
of cornucopia machines as well as public fabbers
and makers that are freely accessible. These public
machines are strictly limited in the goods they can
produce and the raw materials for various complex
goods are also strictly regulated. Mars, Venus, and
Luna are all examples of transitional economies, as is
most of the rest of the inner system.

For the inhabitants of a transitional economy,
creating food, non-smart clothing, furniture, and
most other simple, non-formatible objects is a
trivial matter. However, the public nanofabrication
machines can only create objects that either contain
no electronics at all or contain only simple circuits
that report on the object’s condition and location.
Manufacturing any of these items requires little more
than the machine and a supply of carbon, hydrogen,
oxygen, nitrogen, silicon, iron, aluminum, and tiny
amounts of various trace materials. All of these mate-
rials are sufficiently abundant that acquiring them is
easy and inexpensive.

Using the elements that are freely available to all
tax-paying citizens, nanofabbers can produce a vast
array of goods like exquisite suits of silk clothing,
tables with the appearance of finely polished ebony
and mahogany, beautiful colored glass goblets, or
painted porcelain tea cups. They can also create a
gourmet dinner and a set of fine plates and cutlery on
which to eat the meal. To pay for the small amounts
of energy and resources needed to create these goods,
all inhabitants pay a small tax.

Once the usage tax has been paid, food, clothing,
furniture, and similar goods are all free. Raw materials,
old, worn-out or unwanted goods, and various waste
products are recycled into new goods. Residents of
transitional economies need never experience hunger
or any of the many other sorts of deprivation that
much of humanity faced before the mid-21* century.
Additionally, basic medical care is free in almost all
transitional economy societies, to help insure that the
populace is healthy, content, and productive.

While many goods are freely available, there are
also goods that residents must purchase from corpo-
rations, their government, or other producers. Smart
clothing and smart furniture that can change shape,
color, and pattern, depending upon the user’s wishes,
cannot be manufactured in any of the personal nano-
fabricators. Any goods made from highly durable
composite materials, batteries, electrically powered
devices (including many augmentations), and all
nanotechnology must be acquired in the same fashion.
These goods are considerably less common as they
require access to an unrestricted nanofabricator and/
or exotic raw materials.

Transitional economies tend to be relatively safe
places, since inhabitants cannot manufacture weapons


———
a
z=
\ommees

——————
=
|





more dangerous than knives, clubs, or similar primi-
tive armaments. Everything from firearms to plasma
weapons requires restricted cornucopia machines and
exotic materials to manufacture. The proliferation of
these items is strictly controlled.

Some habitats in the outer system have transitional
economies because residents prefer the safety that
comes from centralizing control of potentially dan-
gerous technologies. Other habitats have transitional
economies by default, because they have limited
stocks of many of the more rare elements required
for manufacturing various complex modern tech-
nologies. Regardless of the reason, outsiders from new
economy habitants often see them as somewhat poor
and deprived, while many residents of transitional
economies consider new economy societies both
exceptionally wealthy and somewhat frightening.

Despite these differences in perception, both eco-
nomic societies have a great deal in common. Food,
clothing, and similar goods are easily available to
all residents. An individual’s status, taste, wealth,
and reputation are measured by the kinds of cloth-
ing, food, and furnishings they possess. While there
are a vast number of templates for different styles of
food and consumer goods, forward-thinking design-
ers develop new designs every month and use copy
protection on these designs to keep them from being
pirated for at least a month or two (and often longer).
As a result, for the first few months after their release,
the only people who can gain access to new designs in
clothing, tableware, food, or similar goods are those
who pay a premium to the designer to download the
templates that allow their cornucopia machine to
manufacture the item.

Since one way of defining a transitional economy
is a system where both reputation and money are in
widespread use, most have developed ways to accom-
modate both forms of payment. While residents pri-
marily use money for purchasing goods, purchasing
cornucopia machine templates involves rep, especially
among residents who regularly visit new economy
societies or have significant contacts there.


THE NEW ECONOMY


Less than forty percent of the transhuman population
lives under some version of what social scientists refer
to as the new economy. In the outer system, alterna-
tive economies are becoming increasingly rare. New
economies are much better than old or transitional
economies at supporting a decentralized populace,
which has led to more than half of all new habitats
and settlements adopting this model.

In new economy societies, individuals can freely
manufacture and use almost anything they want,
assuming they can acquire the correct templates and
raw materials. As a result, the residents’ need for food,
clothing, medical care, information access, and other
basic needs are all easily met. However, there are
still items of value that individuals work very hard
to obtain. Though these are commonly described as





RESTRICTING
DANGEROUS
TECHNOLOGIES


Most societies in Fclipose Phase restrict access
to exceptionally dangerous goods, especially
military hardware. Few people living in a sealed
habitat surrounded by hard vacuum enjoy the
idea of easy access to biowar plagues or devices
that can make large holes in their habitat’s outer
alUli pam Matelelelamiecea Mil avel(e(-lalum-la-me[0li«-me-|a-ymaal=
memories of horrors like the recent Branson-
Vesta disaster are still quite fresh. In that incident,
a radical bioconservative cult manufactured
XoMV{=1 a=] mo) f-|-yaat= ole) gal ekw-lalem-lael(o(-lane-li hme (--1uae)i-10|
the entire habitat when their attack on the
KoXer-] MeKo-1dalaal-1alamer-1Uht-10 mr-Ie-)e--Vell ale me) (e)uicolenn
‘ol g-Le. dave mm dar-m-yolialaliace mat-le)ie-iallamar-limm \/cola-muar-la
50,000 residents had to be resleeved and 400 per-
aat-Jat-sau4pvaneit=romual=va lm dal-¥i am oy-le). 40) o-r-lale mee) mater)
stacks were destroyed in the explosions.

Standard procedure is to restrict access and
heavily encrypt templates needed to create
avi Uh-1a\gerela-Kel-mmuc-y-) eke) al-wr-laveme-diealit-lamer-lale [165
though sufficiently dedicated individuals can
eventually decrypt or reverse-engineer such
(o(=S1(e] ake =AV(=) a mat-laveyi-]e)a(e-lkele-mlam-lat-1cea) tian al-le) ce
1t-) Wm gat hVan ol=mm oO) Kole). <-le mi gelanmea-y-ldlaremieceamdaliale |
or at the very least will alert the local public
mesh if anyone instructs them to do so. Habitats
that possess almost no other laws regarding
possession of various objects and devices usually
have laws against weapons that can do serious
lat-]aanmkomaal-mat-le)ie-1e

Many dangerous technologies are specifically
designed to make use of various exceptionally
rare or transhuman-made elements, including
radioactive elements and artificially created
transuranic elements. Therefore, many habitats
will restrict access to these elements to limit the
manufacture of these weapons. Since detecting
radioactive elements is simple using standard
VahVil ce) alaat=)aies) mX=1 ale) acm (oler-1u-le Mdalgelele|aleleim-\(-1A7
habitat, security authorities can easily learn when
Xolaal=xo)a\=mm ar--wr- (ee [Ulf ave mile lalni(e@-lalameler-lajaid(-\ ime)
such elements or catch them if they attempt to
‘ola iavem4al=1aamelam oley-1 eer i





“post scarcity” societies, some types of scarcity remain
very real.

In most new economy habitats, common goods
are freely available to all residents—or at least to
all residents who meet certain criteria. These criteria


usually take one of two forms: citizenship or public


works. In wealthy and prestigious habitats, free access
to all common goods is offered to residents who have
official citizenship. Citizenship can be earned in a


TT Mal


' |
'





variety of ways, but the most common involves either
being considered a strategic asset due to some singular
expertise, performing an exceedingly valuable service
to the habitat, or working for the habitat for some
period of time. Once an individual is a citizen, the
energy, living space, and raw materials they use in the
course of their daily lives are all freely available.

In many collectivized habitats, residents are
expected to pull their weight by contributing to
ongoing public works in the habitat, typically
requiring between four and eight hours every week.
Depending on the nature of the colony, this work
may be selected by the government, the collective
syndicates that oversee the management of resources,
or by a high rep individual who controls access to
large amounts of energy and raw materials. Unless
someone has especially valuable skills, this labor is
often dull but safe work that can be done more easily
by transhumans than Als, such as checking the habitat
for flaws and performing maintenance tasks.

Assuming an individual has acquired citizenship
or put in their share of work for the collective well-
being of the station, they will have access to a supply
of energy and raw materials that allows them to use
their cornucopia machines to manufacture what
they need. Visitors are generally also allowed access,
though anyone staying long is expected to contribute
to the habitat if they don’t want to see their reputa-
tion slashed.


VALUE AND SCARCITY IN NEW ECONOMY SOCIETIES


While basic citizenship allowances cover most
necessities and even some luxuries, this has limits.
With the allowance, individuals receive a quota
of goods and energy they can use every day. This


usage is impressively lavish by 20" century terms,


allowing residents to create a dozen suits of clothing
and provide food for half a dozen people every day.
Creating elaborate food, furniture, and tableware to
serve a party of a dozen people is within the means
of any individual. However, doing the same thing for
a party of two hundred people is outside the bounds
of the basic allowance.

Individuals who wish to exceed their basic citizen-
ship allowance can either use rep to obtain more
access to resources and energy or they can pool
their resources with others to accomplish their goals.
There are many goods that are fairly complex to
create—including many of the best morphs and highly
specialized and intricate pieces of gear like advanced
augmentations—that exceed the resources available in
a basic citizenship allowance.

The allowance also limits the amount of travel that
residents can easily undertake. Residents of most
new economy habitats own good quality spacesuits,
and many can use their rep to create a small and
very minimally equipped travel pod to visit a nearby
habitat. However, even the smallest actual spacecraft
are far too large and difficult to create to be available
on an ordinary citizenship allowance or even on the





A TIME OF ECLIPSE





SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


7


\CTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A


In an age when digital material is easily copied and
OdaN Aci ker=] Ime [oLele sw-] ccm cl o]coyelU Cel] o)(-MNVIT MAM Ar-laLeyc-]e)a(@s 140) 1F
concepts like copyright, trademark, and intellectual
property are fighting a losing war. Despite the best
methods of encryption, DRM, and similar anti-piracy
measures, very little escapes the clutches of pirates for
long. It's not unheard of for copies/blueprints of new
goods to be shared on pirate networks before they're


In response, some manufacturers, designers, and
artists attempt to produce goods that are irrepro-
ducible—and thus more highly valued. Possible
approaches include transgenic living sculptures with
built-in obsolescence and terminator genes, energy art,
items made from extremely rare materials (e.g., a chair
crafted from titanium mined from the Mead crater on
the harsh Venusian surface), or intangibles such as


even officially released.


amount of rep an ordinary individual can acquire ina
reasonable amount of time.

In addition to large-scale uses of resources and
difficult-to-manufacture goods, there are items that
are intrinsically scarce, such as relics of Earth and
handmade crafts. While exact copies of everything
from the Mona Lisa to a pressed daisy are exception-
ally easy to acquire, genuine physical relics of Earth
are prized possessions. The vast majority of refugees
could take nothing with them, but almost everyone
wishes to have some token to remind them of Earth. A
single dried flower, coin, or piece of stone from Earth
can be exchanged for almost any morph or other
good that is moderately difficult to create. Actual
historical artifacts, like a famous person’s hat or auto-
graph, are worth far more, as are original works of
art by famous artists. Two years ago, one of the last
three remaining paintings by Leonardo da Vinci was
traded for a large and well-equipped spacecraft, and
a small piece of the Liberty Bell was traded for both
a custom-designed morph and a fully outfitted one-
hectare villa in one of the more prosperous habitats
orbiting Saturn.

While less expensive than Earth relics, handmade
goods also command a high price and are in great
demand by the wealthy. Though most people cannot
distinguish between a fine wine grown on one of the
Martian vineyards and a duplicate of the same wine
produced using an average cornucopia machine, some
connoisseurs claim they can taste the difference. There
is also much prestige to be gained by serving hand-
grown food. Hand-produced wine is a rare good that
can only be enjoyed by a few, and thus it commands
a moderately high price. In almost all cases, hand-
made goods are expensive because of their rarity and
because many people enjoy the status associated with
owning and using them.

Dhierevare tirce wotm@ereitcmiontnalearcuscareceanta
thus quite valuable: living space, skilled sapient labor,
and novelty. The majority of transhumanity lives in
standard-sized dwelling units, which typically range
from one hundred cubic meters on smaller or poorer
habitats to two hundred cubic meters on wealthy
and prosperous habitats. Since each cubic meter of


skilled performances. sd


a habitat must be manufactured and the process of
building or expanding a habitat is far from simple,
space is at a premium. The only exceptions to this
scarcity are Europa and Mars, which can be inhabited
by properly adapted morphs without the necessity of
complex life support or the danger of vacuum waiting
just outside every exterior wall. As a result, owning a
larger dwelling space in a habitat is worth a signifi-
cant amount, and large villas and private asteroids are
luxuries possessed by only the highest rep individuals.

While transhuman labor has become cheap due
to the large number of infugees who must sell their
services or indenture themselves to obtain morphs
and habitat space, skilled labor is far more expensive.
A unique custom morph design, for example, crafted
by a skilled genehacker, can cost as much as a small
spacecraft depending on how much this morph
deviates from standard models. The same is true for
everything from custom-designed clothing to complex
pieces of technology designed for a single specific
usage. While the actual manufacturing costs of these
items is no more expensive than any other similar
item, the time and effort needed to design them can
make them exceedingly expensive.

The final commodity that is both scarce and valu-
able is novelty. While anyone can drink a fine wine or
wear a wide range of designer clothing, other com-
modities are kept deliberately scarce. Cutting-edge
fashion, new music, and even haute nosh (bold, exclu-
sive snack food designs) are harder to find because the
templates needed to manufacture them are encrypted
and cannot be copied. The copy protection used on
the templates for newly created goods automatically
expires within three years at most, and most habitats
reduce this to one year. In addition, this copy pro-
tection is never perfect; someone always manages
to create pirated versions of these new goods within
two to six months. However, from the time templates
are created until the time that someone pirates them,
these items are only available to individuals who are
willing and able to pay for them. Popular new tem-
plates command a good price in the new economy,
and a large number of transhumans make their living
designing and marketing such templates.





THE ECONOMY AND MNFOMORPH REFUGEES


During the last phase of The Fall and the evacuation of
Earth, more than four hundred million refugees were
uploaded and egocast to orbital databanks through-
out the solar system. They were forced to flee Earth
without any of their possessions, even their bodies.
Instead, they became infomorphs who had nothing
beyond their minds and memories—the most destitute
group of refugees ever to exist in transhuman history.
In the years since the Fall, large numbers of these infu-
gees have been resleeved. Anyone with valuable skills
was first to gain a morph, followed by anyone with
friends or relatives already living in orbit who could
take responsibility for the person’s resleeving.

Those two groups accounted for only half of the
refugees. The remaining found themselves in a far more
difficult situation. Lacking either personal contacts or
vital skills, they had no one else to help them. In the
first few years, many of these infugees signed contracts
promising their labor or other services in return for
resleeving and a guarantee of some form of income
sufficient to support them. Because of the critical labor
shortages in the first five years after the Fall, another
thirty percent of the refugees managed to regain bodies
(usually cheap synthmorphs). These indentured ser-
vants performed all manner of critical tasks, ranging
from scavenging ruined habitats for useful devices to
mining or asteroid herding. Others became servants or
bodyguards for the rich or performed less moral ser-
vices for criminal syndicates. Most took on orbital con-
struction jobs, helping to build the new habitats that


would eventually become their homes. Some infugees


found work performing services like data-mining, mon-
itoring automated factories, or other jobs that could be
done by infomorphs. After the Fall, infomorphs were
used to take over numerous tasks previously handled
by AGIs, who were no longer trusted.

Unfortunately, some infomorph refugees made bad
or unlucky deals and ended up working for years only


to find that their employer either kept finding ways to
delay or reduce the payment or vanished before they
delivered on their promise. As a result, slightly more
than twenty percent of the original infomorph refugees
remain infomorphs; some by choice, but most because
they have not been able to acquire the means to resleeve
themselves or are still working long contracts to gain
their morph. The problem with obtaining bodies for
these infugees goes beyond simply providing a new
morph for resleeving; living beings require living space
as well as a steady supply of consumables. For this
reason, many infugees have been morphed in synthetic
shells and housed in areas inhospitable to biomorphs,
such as the unenclosed portions of Venusian aerostats.
With space in short supply, the waiting list for infugees
looking for a habitat to call home is quite long.

Both the hypercorps and the Planetary Consortium
were quick to make use of this vast labor pool, espe-
cially on Mars. Mars has large amounts of open space
and resources and is sufficiently close to habitable that
Mars-adapted morphs like the ruster are inexpensive
to create. As a result, the Planetary Consortium has
been responsible for the employment of almost half of
all remaining infomorph refugees. For the past decade,
the vast majority of infomorph refugees who want
bodies have found that indenturing themselves to the
Planetary Consortium or one of the associated hyper-
corps involved in Martian terraforming is the most
reliable way to find both a morph and housing, since
both are guaranteed at the end of the contract. The
work involved is particularly difficult, however, and
the contracts are normally quite long. The Planetary
Consortium is also particularly adept at adding
charges that prolong indenture—though most inden-
tures carry five to twenty year contracts, in reality
these indentures typically last between eight and
twenty-five years; some go on even longer. This large
population of indentured servants on Mars—many
of them now free and resleeved—is becoming a force














SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


\CTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





in its own right, adhering to the Martian wilds and
rural areas and disdaining the elite hypercorp domes.
Adopting the name Barsoomians from an old Earth
fiction series, this resentful lower class is increasingly
becoming a thorn in the Planetary Consortium’s side.
Even though it is highly automated, terraforming
and agricultural work on Mars is both tedious and
physically demanding labor. Indentured employees are
regularly sent into the regions that were most affected
by the Fall. As a result, these employees occasionally
face attacks by life forms mutated by the TITANs, nan-
otech war-swarms, or similar still-active and danger-
ous exotic technologies. Indentured employees are not
charged for damage to or destruction of their morphs
caused by such dangers, but the experience of even
reversible death from such causes is highly traumatic.
Other refugees found that they enjoyed life as info-
morphs, reveling in complex simulspaces and otherwise
living up the virtual life. Some found work that paid for
the ability to egocast throughout the solar system. Ten
years after the Fall, there is a thriving infomorph culture.
While exact data is difficult to obtain, many research-
ers believe that at least a third of all current infomorph
refugees have no plans to place themselves into a morph,
instead enjoying the freedom of virtual existence. These
infomorphs have become increasingly involved in
habitat politics, especially in the outer system; many
habitats have officials who are infomorphs. Most
researchers predict this infomorph culture will increas-
ingly diverge from physical cultures as time progresses.


THE CLANKING MASSES


With so many infugees acquiring cheap synthmorph
shells—particularly cases and synths—and unable
to afford anything better, synthmorphs have become
associated with poverty throughout the solar system.
This lowest strata of the poor are often referred to as
“the clanking masses” and compose one-sixth of the
transhuman population. Most of these people strongly
desire a biomorph sleeve, even if it is only a splicer or
worker pod. Their omnipresence is now viewed with
distaste, especially in elite social circles. Even those
who have expensive, lovely, custom-designed synthetic
morphs fitted with all of the latest augmentations are
considered to be eccentrics with poor taste.

The social stigma against synthmorphs is strength-
Sheu byetmiemican tiatin (ie cvcminOk ml OUlci ath lckKs
by the TITANs, their robotic shells could be rapidly
co-opted to become a deadly TITAN-controlled
army. This has led to some habitats going so far as
to actively segregate their synthmorph populations,
rationalized by the fact that shells can easily inhabit
unheated and unpressurized portions of various habi-
tats. This segregation and social stigma, however, has
produced the beginnings of an emergent synthmorph
culture. There are already numerous habitats where
all of the inhabitants are sleeved in synthetic shells
and conventional life support exists only for the few
visitors wearing biomorphs.


———
as
z=
lemme

———————]
=
|





HABITATS


With Earth now uninhabitable, transhumanity sur-
vives in a variety of offworld habitats. There are two
major types of these habitats: settlements on planets
or large moons, such as those on Luna, Mars, Venus,
Europa, or Titan, and space habitats that are built on
or near an asteroid or other useful source of raw mate-
rials. Most of these space habitats spin themselves to
provide gravity, with Earth and Mars gravity being
the two most common choices. There are also a large
number of zero-g or microgravity habitats, consisting
of either non-spinning habitats or stations built into
small asteroids or moons.


PLANETARY SETTLEMENTS


The Martian and Lunar city-states and other plan-
etary settlements contain environments most familiar
to refugees from Earth. This similarity is one reason
that two-thirds of all infomorph refugees live on
Mars, Luna, or Titan. The exact type of settlements
depends on the planet or moon on which they are
located, with some being far more similar to Earth
cities than others. Most Lunar settlements, like those
on Ganymede, Mercury, Titan, and Callisto, consist
of a network of subsurface tunnels and chambers
excavated with plasma drills. These tunnel settle-
ments differ slightly from one world to the next. In
most of these tunnel cities, the floors of all open
areas and many dwellings are composed of geneti-
cally modified grass designed for both comfort and
durability. Light panels cover the ceiling and provide
bright full-spectrum lighting.

A few of these buried cities further enhance their
natural appearance with trees and, in some cases,
specially engineered ecosystems, in both public areas
and private dwellings. A few of these urban tunnel
forests and jungles are home to numerous flower-
ing vines and bright tropical butterflies. In a small
number of settlements on both Titan and Luna, colo-
nies of small monkeys and parrots with metabolisms
and habits modified for modern ideas of cleanliness
and sanitation thrive, giving some of these tunnel
cities the feel of a buried jungle.

All of the older or more prosperous tunnel cities
also contain large open areas that are typically
between one and twenty hectares, with ceilings at
least ten meters high. Some are parks, others are
public plazas, but all offer the residents of the tunnel
cities a chance to experience open spaces. Also,
with the exception of Mercury, all of these tunnel
cities are on moons where gravity is no more than
one-sixth of a g. Some of these open spaces are con-
structed with roofs between thirty and one hundred
meters high and are designed so that residents can
use them for flying by strapping on a pair of specially
designed wings.

The cloud cities of Venus are among the most
unusual habitats in the solar system. Their exotic
nature is enhanced by the chance to observe the many








recently introduced floating and flying life forms
modified to live in the clouds. Though located almost
fifty kilometers above the most deadly environment in
the solar system, life in these cloud cities is among the
most Earth-like anywhere in the solar system, with
gravity, temperatures, and atmospheric pressure all
being very near normal Earth levels.

By contrast, the settlements on Mars look the most
like the cities of lost Earth, built on the surface rather
than underground or in the skies. Some of the more
recent settlements are designed for use by inhabitants
in ruster morphs or synthmorphs and feature no life
support. Older Martian cities and other settlements
are typically covered with low domes of flexible poly-
carbonate and filled with a completely breathable, if
somewhat low pressure, atmosphere. Some, however,
are collections of sealed skyscrapers, connected by
skywalks and tunnels. If current terraforming efforts
continue on schedule, the last sealed Martian cities
will be opened to an atmosphere breathable by stan-
dard biomorphs within sixty years.

The most unusual planetary settlements are the
ocean cities of Europa. These are among the most
exotic locations in the entire solar system and are
quite disorienting for individuals not used to under-
water living. From a distance, most appear to be
complex Christmas tree ornaments hanging down one
hundred meters or more below the ice crust above. A
few are built deeper, plunging under the icy surface
near the various hydrothermal vents that host the
native Europan life clusters.

Many of the residents of the Europan cities find
them familiar because they previously lived in one
of the underwater cities on Earth and so were used
to both the conditions and to living in an aquatic-
adapted body. Europan cities all contain sealed
buildings with normal atmosphere, both because
some activities work best in air instead of water and
because the cities often host visitors without gills.
However, these regions make up only ten percent
or so of most of these cities. The remainder looks
vaguely similar to many zero-g habitats, except that
the structures are considerably sturdier and are
located underwater. Buildings are designed to be
accessible in all three dimensions, so going from one
floor to another usually involves swimming out a
large opening in the wall and down a level. In almost
all of these aquatic cities, large fusion generators heat
the surrounding water, so that the entire city exists
in a region of water that is far warmer than the sur-
rounding frigid Europan sea.


SPACE HABITATS


With the exception of the private habitats of the
wealthy and powerful described below, the vast
majority of space habitats hold between twenty-
five hundred and one million inhabitants. Almost
two-thirds of these habitats were built during the
first seven years after the Fall, when huge portions
of the system’s surviving infrastructure were used





to create habitats suitable for hundreds of millions
of infugees.

During this era, several thousand torus habitats
and cluster colonies were created throughout the
solar system. Many of these habitats were created
by automated mining machinery that had been
repurposed to create colonies. Due to the limitations
of these automated mining rigs, most these habitats
were small, holding between one thousand and one
hundred thousand inhabitants. Twenty percent of
the system’s inhabitants live in such habitats. During
the past decade, various small organizations, cults,
and subcultures have left the larger habitats they
lived in and created their own small habitats, few
of which were designed to hold more than ten thou-
sand residents.

The development of the new nanotech Hamilton
cylinders has lead to a new interest in large habi-
tats and in habitats that can easily expand in size
to accommodate an increasing population. The
expense and difficulty involved in expanding existing
habitats or building new ones is one of the principle
reasons that more than forty million infomorph refu-
gees still do not posses morphs. Although none of
the existing Hamilton cylinders has finished growing,
they are both highly regarded by their residents. This
same technology is also likely to produce a low-
cost method for creating small habitats, where the
creators merely need to seed an asteroid with the
appropriate advanced nanotech generators and wait
a few months.


SCUM BARGES


At the opposite extreme from the Hamilton cyl-
inders are the infamous scum barges. Most are
spacecraft built before or during the Fall that were
used to help with the early stages of the evacuation,
ferrying people away from the doomed Earth. Many
of these refugee ships were unable to find anywhere
to unload their transhuman cargo, becoming a sort
of permanent traveling refugee camp, sometimes
succumbing to mutinies. They eventually joined up
with pre-existing scum ships and swarms, adopting
their nomadic, free-wheeling, anarchistic lifestyle.
In contrast to egocasting or the faster and more effi-
cient fusion drive ships, so-called scum barges offer
a floating city alternative to space travel. These
ships function as roving black markets and carni-
vals of the bizarre—lawless zones where anyone can
find whatever they want or need for the right rep
Ol pice:

Most scum barges have fusion-powered plasma
drives and hold between two hundred and five
thousand inhabitants. The worst barges are excep-
tionally overcrowded, with aging life-support
systems struggling to maintain a breathable (but still
foul-smelling) atmosphere under the strain of too
many passengers. The larger and more prosperous
scum barges are often fitted with various modern
conveniences, including large cornucopia machines


wy
v


?¢


3. 3.5: 5,3. 2 e


p


3.
12”
A


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a


Oo
~











\


|


=


-
2
a


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an cone }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





and vast stores of pirated manufacturing templates.
Some are thriving utopianist enclaves, while others
are mobile dens of smugglers and thieves that would
have been destroyed long ago except for the fact that
large and powerful organizations find their existence
occasionally useful. Living conditions on the scum
barges range from overcrowded refugee camps or
thriving, egalitarian anarchist enclaves to relatively
modern habitats outfitted in barbaric splendor by
successful organized crime gangs.


A DIVERSITY OF FLOATING WORLDS


The use of cornucopia machines and smart materials
means that the interiors of all but the poorest and
most destitute habitats can be reshaped according
to the whims of their inhabitants. When the number
of inhabitants is small enough or their aesthetics
are uniform enough to all share the same tastes, the
results can be both unique and strange. Large-scale
fads occasionally sweep through even the largest and
most cosmopolitan habitats, making some of the
bigger colonies almost as odd.

Several habitats closely resemble terrestrial jungles,
with an entire rainforest canopy growing from the
slowly rotating outer shell and all dwellings and
pieces of high technology nestled in the branches
or hollows of these vast gene-engineered trees. In
these living marvels, genetically engineered monkeys,
iguanas, and tree sloths wander amidst the inhab-
itants—some of these creatures are wild animals,
while others are controlled by AI servitors and act
as maintenance or observation drones. Some habi-
tats resemble other scenes from old Earth, including
more than a dozen water-filled habitats hosting some
of the aquatic inhabitants of the now-destroyed
underwater cities. In most of these marine habitats,
the actual buildings are either placed amidst a living
coral reef filled with fish and other creatures or are
actually built impo uierconalree timiicchnmn Nichclanc
many other habitats duplicating other environments,
such as Afrique—a large Cole habitat with a popula-
tion of two hundred thousand, where the habitat is
made to resemble the African savanna. In Afrique,
the two ends of the habitat are shaped into snow-
capped mountains, and the inhabitants mostly live in
several large cities built in the savannah.

While nostalgia for Earth is a powerful force in
habitat design, there are many other options. A few
exotic habitats resemble fantastic cities from various
vid games or older forms of entertainment, includ-
ing a handful of small and eccentric habitats where
the inhabitants all appear as strange humanoid alien
beings. In many, the inhabitants have cosmetically
modified themselves to fit in with the setting.

One of the most common differences between
small and large habitats is that the residents of
smaller stations often share a common ideology or
sense of aesthetics and so are far more eccentric.


———
ae
z=
imme

SS
=
=





Some of the more unusual small habitats include
dimly lit, spooky landscapes filled with perpetu-
ally leafless trees or thick, continually regenerating
cobwebs, and other similar macabre touches. Others
are gleaming colonies of shining citadels made from
quartz and steel soomesancn WNC mitre oimmlcered
arcologies where any sort of personal privacy is rare,
while in others every family or even every person has
a separate dwelling that is rarely seen by outsiders.
Since the populations of these stations are relatively
small and the vast majority are not major economic
centers, travel to and from these smaller habitats is
infrequent, which further increases their insularity
and idiosyncrasies.


THE LARGEST HABITATS


Extropia, the huge Martian city-states, and some of
the largest Lunar stations hold between one million
and twenty million inhabitants. There are many
smaller settlements containing between one hundred
thousand and one million residents. These habitats
are considerably less idiosyncratic and exotic than
the smaller colonies. Almost all contain a cosmo-
politan and diverse population from a wide variety
of subcultures. Because of this diversity and the
difficulty of forming any sort of consensus with a
large population, these settlements tend to be remi-
niscent of the cities of Earth. All of them have their
own unique character and feel, but the differences
between one habitat and another are rarely over-
whelming. In addition, all of these stations are large
enough to hold offices for all of the major hyper-
corps, who further promote uniformity by providing
the same services from identical hypercorp offices.
Since most of these habitats are major centers of
commerce, travel between them is frequent, so there
are various facilities for travelers such as hotels and
sports clubs that help reduce the disorientation of
travel by offering identical experiences, regardless of
their location.


MICKOGRAVITY HABITATS


Zero-g habitats are very different from those that
use rotational gravity. Most consist of networks
of tunnels drilled through an asteroid—similar to
the tunnel cities of Luna and Titan—but some are
considerably more exotic. Like most other habitats,
almost all microgravity colonies are built in, on, or
next to one or more asteroids containing a large
amount of useful raw materials. They typically
feature a gravity less than 0.01 g that has very little
effect on the daily lives of the inhabitants. Near-
weightless environments allow for some interesting
and unusual habitat designs as there is no up or
down, enabling the creation of structures that would
be too fragile even in low gravity. The habitats of
Nova York, (p. 97) and Nguyen’s Compact (p. 103)
are both examples of this, among many others.











PRIVATE HABITHTS


The most rare and exotic of all of the types of habitats
are the luxurious private ones owned by exceedingly
wealthy or high-rep individuals. Most private habitats
are small but still give each of the residents several
thousand cubic meters of personal space.

A typical private habitat is either a cylinder one
hundred fifty meters in diameter (the minimum


necessary to produce Mars gravity at a rate of rota-


tion slow enough to avoid problems in all morphs)
and between fifty and two hundred meters long or
a zero-g sphere one hundred to two hundred meters
in diameter. These habitats are always tethered to
a small collection of raw materials, consisting of
chunks of silicate, nickel-iron, and water-containing
carboniferous asteroids with a mass equal to at
least that of the habitat. The majority of private
habitats are inhabited by between half a dozen and
three dozen morphs, most of which may be Als
or indentured servants. Life in a private habitat is





| it


rf =,
a


exceptionally lavish. Almost every surface is made
of formatible smart materials and there are several
large general-purpose cornucopia machines avail-
able for the use of every resident.

By using these nanofabricators and the smart mate-
rials to their fullest, residents can completely change
the interior of the habitat in only a day or two—trans-
forming a sterile and crystalline array of shining metal
and glass buildings into a thriving forest, inhabited by
a variety of wild animals. The mesh is filled with vids
and XPs about the lives of the most famous residents
of the solar system. Almost everyone has seen the inte-
rior of one of these vast space mansions many times,
though only a tiny percentage of the inhabitants of
the solar system will ever have a chance to actually
visit such a location. Many gatecrashers, scaven-
gers who travel to Earth, and others who engage in
similarly daring endeavors hope to be able to obtain
information or objects sufficiently valuable to allow
them to retire to their own private habitat.


al eal!





A TIME OF ECLIPSE











SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
\CTIONS AND COMBAT }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A








FACTIONS


One would have thought a cataclysmic event such
as the Fall would bring the surviving elements of
transhumanity closer together, jointly dedicating
themselves to the repopulation of the solar system
and continued prosperity. Instead, the remoteness
and physical isolation of transhuman colonies and
habitats stretched across the solar system, as well as
the effects emerging technologies have had on trans-
human economies and social lives, have promoted
the evolution of a wide spectrum of philosophies,
agendas, and political models.


THE WYPERCORPS


To some economists, the Fall and the numerous
crises that predated it on Earth can be viewed as an
extinction event, the end of the line for the massive
transnational megacorp dinosaurs, financial giants
that supported their monolithic frameworks on out-
dated economic models and industrial technologies.
The hypercorps are their evolutionary descendants:
slimmer, faster, meaner, and more flexible, eagerly
embracing the possibilities of new technologies and
never afraid to toss the old aside to take advantage
of the new. It was the hypercorps that drove transhu-
manity’s expansion into space and who continue to
push the technological envelope, guiding transhuman-
ity towards new horizons—always with profit as their
driving goal.

Most hypercorps are decentralized, non-asset-based
legal entities. Complete automation, advanced robot-
ics, morph technology, and cornucopia machines
allow the hypercorps to abstain from mass employ-
ment for labor or production services. The need for
physical labor has mostly been reduced to tasks
associated with habitat construction, terraforming, or
deep space mining. Infomorphs and Als are heavily
employed (or more accurately, owned) as drone
operators or virtual workers, and many administra-
tive tasks are performed online via augmented reality,
virtual private networks, and simulspace nodes. Some
hypercorps are in fact entirely “virtual,” with no
physical assets and each employee acting as a mobile
office. A few major hypercorps literally consist of only
a dozen transhuman personnel. Though some hyper-
corps are massive and diversified, most specialize in
particular fields or services. This results in both an
intricate system of partnerships to develop, produce,
and market products and services and a large-scale
tendency to internally contract special services from
other hypercorps. Many hypercorps also pool their
resources and talent into cooperative research initia-
tives, project centers, or shared habitats.

Most hypercorps are traditional capitalist in
outlook, though many have adopted alternative
business philosophies and management models. This
might include basing decisions on internal forecast
market trends, groupthink consensus models, or
ditching management entirely in favor of staff polling/


! |





voting initiatives that statistically fare better. A few
are anarcho-capitalist or mutualist companies origi-
nating from Extropian enclaves, though these often
suffer from a bias when making deals with inner
system powers.

The solar system boasts thousands of hypercorps;
a few of the more prominent and interesting are
noted below.


COGNITE


Major Industries: Cognitive Science, Mental
Implants, Psychosurgery, Nootropics
Major Stations: Thought (Venus orbit), Phobos
(Mars moon)
A pioneer in the field of cognitive science, Cognite
(pronounced cog-neet) drives forward the cutting edge
of research into understanding the transhuman mind.
Well known for their mental augmentations and the
original menton morph design, Cognite also special-
izes in psychosurgery and nootropics. Their elitist
and aloof image was not aided by their scandalous
involvement with the projects to raise accelerated
growth children that became known as the Lost
generation (p. 233), nor rumors that they engage in
research involving TITAN-influenced incapacitating
input attacks. Nevertheless they remain a key member
in the Planetary Consortium.


PSICLONE


To: Proxy-99
From: <Encrypted>

I'm enclosing some data | recently
acquired from an inside source regard-
Tae far- aso or=] 1 (10 man oa 40) (-Yel al x) (400) 0 -e
some type of black budget research
initiative pursued by Cognite, possibly
with involvement from other Planetary
Consortium interests. Their work seems
to focus strongly on the Watts-MacLeod
strain of the exsurgent virus—with
some alarming results. a


COMET ERPRESS (COMER)


Major Industries: Courier Services, Shipping,
Logistics

Major Stations: Nectar (Luna), Olympus (Mars)
Comet Express specializes in delivery services, inter-
stellar logistics, supply chains, and shipping. They
maintain a presence on almost every transhuman
habitat in the solar system, often via local subcontrac-
tors. Despite the wonders of nanofabrication, many
resources must still be imported. ComEx focuses on
managing supply and trade routes and making sure
physical shipments reach their destinations. For that
purpose, ComEx maintains orbital hubs equipped
with slingshot accelerators at strategic waypoints


|
7 ||


!|






















| |
He 1]


tl








throughout the system and a fleet of cargo vessels
and courier drones. For reasons unknown to the
public, ComEx is viewed with hostility by the Jovian
Republic, who have standing orders to shoot down
ComEx vessels.


DIRECT ACTION


Major Industries: Security Services,

Military Contracting
Major Stations: Hexagon (Earth-Luna L5)
Descended from the remnants of several pre-Fall
national military forces and private military contrac-
tors, this hypercorp made a name for itself in the
period immediately following the Fall, where they
helped manage refugee populations among various
habitats and vessels while shattering any sign of
unrest immediately and with full force. Direct Action
today is known for its highly efficient shock troops
and superior combat morphs, providing security and
public police services to self-governing habitats or
hypercorp installations. Shifting political alliances
between habitat clusters, corporate rivalry, and the
constant fear of TITAN agents cater to Direct Action’s
paranoia-inducing marketing. The corporation main-
tains several habitats as physical training facilities and
armament depots.


ECOLOGENE


Major Industries: Environmental Systems, Genetics
Major Stations: McClintock (Mars orbit)

Ecologene specializes in living systems, environmental
genetics (with a specialty in insects), smart animals,
bioarchitecture, and environmental nanotech. They
design and maintain the ecosystems inside numer-
ous habitats and tunnel colonies. One of Ecologene’s
notable projects is building and maintaining a massive
genetics archive of all life forms, though this endeavor
was nearly crippled by the Fall. For unknown reasons,
Ecologene seems to be favored by the Factors. Some
speculate that Ecologene has some sort of blackmail
material in hand, while others believe Ecologene
is trading away transhumanity’s genetic secrets in
exchange for a few xeno-tech gifts.


EROTECH


Major Industries: Uploading, Als, Electronics,
Software

Major Stations: Starwell (Main Belt)

Often regarded as the personal technocratic pulpit of
the infamous media mogul Morgan Sterling, Exotech
emerged from the Fall almost unscathed, any signifi-
cant losses absorbed by corporate assets in peripheral
market segments, while ruthlessly buying out troubled
competitors or think tanks unable to adapt to the
transitioning economy. Nowadays, Exotech remains
a predominant designer of high-end electronics, Als,
and mesh presence software systems. ExoTech also
continues to pursue an uncompromising progressive
agenda with its research in mind emulation, uploading,
and resleeving, as well as infomorph ego simulation.











Rumors persist that ExoTech continues to carry out =
research and even production of AGIs.


ENPERIA
Major Industries: Media (AR, VR, XP), News,


Entertainment, Memetics






a YN





























Major Stations: Elysium (Mars)
Living up to its name, Experia dominates the solar
system’s news, media, and entertainment market seg-
ments, generating controversy not only with its pub-
licly expressed pro-Al stance or inviting an AGI to its
board of directors, but also by proficient use of hyper-
viral marketing and sophisticated XP-programming.
Another core segment is the production of educa-
tional XP and infomorph or AI tutors, some of the
latter regularly ascending to pop-culture icon status.
Experia is the Planetary Consortium’s prime authority
on designing and deploying customized viral memes,
developed to counter anything posing a threat to
the Consortium’s interests. The corp has automated
nodes and VR centers on many habitats throughout
the solar system, and it contracts thousands of free-
lance lifeloggers as live, roving, citizen journalistas.
Claims by some infomorphs that Experia has illegally
subjected indentured infomorphs to never-ending
simulation experiments for forecasting and intelli-
gence analysis purposes remain unsubstantiated.


FA JING


Major Industries: Mining, Energy, Biotech,
Industrial Manufacturing
Major Stations: New Dazhai (Mars)
The industrial giant Fa Jing is a powerhouse in the























mining and energy production markets and also
boasts a remarkable presence in the fields of biotech
and industrial equipment manufacturing. The former
megacorp has quickly adapted to the new economic
environments and reputation-based systems, thanks
partly to its dedication to network building and sharing
social responsibility, epitomized in concepts like datong
and guanxi. Often considered insular and close-minded,
its internal communal and protective mindset is a
strong contrast to its manipulative and monopolist
business attitude. Fa Jing is engaged in mining opera-
tions throughout the asteroid belt and the Trojans and
maintains significant corporate assets on Mars.


WAR CRIMES


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


To: MeshLeaks Newswire
From: <mesh ID does not exist>

You asked for it: veritiable evidence
proving Direct Actions war crimes during
the Fall <link failure>. Go ahead, take it
public. The Planetary Consortium elites
will find you, kill you, and erase your
backups. Go ahead. Test them. ef





CATEREEPER CORPORATION


Major Industries: Gatecrashing, Research, XP Media,


arms suppliers to autonomist and brinker stations.
Their subsidiary Medusan Shield offers private secu- ===


01 1 at


Exoplanet Colonization rity services in direct competition to Direct Action.


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


Major Stations: Gateway (Pandora)

Initially born from the merger of several scientific
institutions and their corporate financiers, this
hypercorp made a name for itself overnight when it
announced the successful decoding of the wormhole
gateway discovered on Saturn’s moon Pandora. Under
the leadership of the eccentric but charismatic xeno-
archeologist Xander Rabin, the consortium funds
gatecrasher explorations through the Pandora Gate,
paying a small share of the revenue to the explorers
but otherwise retaining all-encompassing rights on
any discoveries made—as well as the marketing and
distribution of the highly popular gatecrasher XP
recordings. Aside from scheduled explorations, the
consortium offers high-risk gatecrasher scouting and
discovery trips for the bold or desperate, selected
through a random lottery system.


O0-NIN GROUP


Major Industries: Banking, Agritech, Robotics,
Services

Major Stations: Tsukomo (Luna)

Considered a relic of Earth’s capitalist market economy,
the Go-nin Group is a traditional Japanese keiretsu, a
conglomerate of companies with interwoven relation-
ships and shareholdings, horizontally integrated across
several industries (and sometimes vertically integrated
within a business sector as well), and centered around
the long-lived Tamahashi enterprise consultancy firm.
Tamahashi evolved from an influential corporate lobby
to a diversified bank holding major equity in the group’s
partners; it now controls the group’s assets and directs
the partnership’s overall business strategy. Through its
member corps, the Go-nin Group has a sizable presence
throughout the entire system and—without dominat-
ing a specific industry—own significant market share
in fields such as banking, agritech, robotics, and ser-
vices. Any difficulties in adapting to evolving economic
models due to its rigid structure are compensated by





While Direct Action is known for its expertly trained
soldiers, Medusan Shield is known for their elite
cadre of highly trained and aesthetically enhanced
female combat morphs. It is suspected that several
prominent assassinations have been the work of
agents contracted through Medusan Shield.


MIMBUS


Major Industries: Electronics, Mesh Systems,
Farcasting, Communications
Major Stations: Octavia (Venus)
Nimbus produces key components for mesh infra-
structure, from spime microradio and sensor systems
to ectos, servers, and laser links. Nimbus also domi-
nates the network of farcaster links throughout the
system, due to several breakthroughs in this tech-
nology (some claim that Nimbus purchased these
advances from the Factors). Rumors that Nimbus
controls a secret Pandora gate or that they engage
in illicit ego-smuggling (or even that they are secretly
transferring stolen egos to experimental exoplanet
colonies) regularly circulate through the mesh but
remain unconfirmed.


OMMNICOR


Major Industries: Nanofabrication, Chemicals,
Energy, Anti-Matter

Major Stations: Monolith-3 (Mercury), Feynman (Luna)
A descendant of the pre-Fall megacorporate giant
Monolith Industries, Omnicor specializes in the fields
of nanotech design and fabrication, chemical refining,
alternative fuel, and antimatter research. Omnicor
managed to secure research-oriented key assets from
its twin rival Starware in a violent conflict during
the Fall, leading to an ongoing enmity that might be


UNION BUSTING


SKILLS unscrupulous exploitative behavior and a bottom-line


.


\CTIONS AND COMBAT


To: OmniSec Alpha
From: OmniSec 837302

Surveillance has confirmed it. The biosleeved
workers at our secure Didenko facility are indeed
communicating with outside autonomist interests
and discussing militant free union organizing
tactics and even a wildcat strike. Their primary
complaints concern the 30-hour workdays and
mandatory drug regimens enforced to keep the
staff at our required levels of productivity. We
recommend the immediate insertion of a counter-
insurgency squad and implementation of standard
union-busting protocols, including but not limited
to loyalty testing, chemical pacification, tactical
psychosurgery, selective excision of leadership
nodes, memetic counterstrikes, and replacing the
workforce with modified backups. The entire oper-
ation will take place using a purported mission to
root out a Starware infiltration as cover. Co


attitude, earning the group the reputation as the most

— ruthless hypercorp of the inner system. Go-nin cur-
MIND HACKS Se : rently controls a Pandora gate on Eris, (p. 109), secured
ae by a contingent of ultimate mercenaries.


CORGON DEFENSE SYSTEMS


Major Industries: Miltech, Security, Military


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


Contracting
GEAR Major Stations: Extropia

Gorgon is one of the most significant Extropian
GAME INFORMATION ee
success stories. Based out of the anarcho-capitalist
REFERENCE freehold, Gorgon has become a major name in the
design and manufacture of weapons, vehicles, sensors,
and other defense technologies. Their product range


includes personal weapon systems, spacecraft arma-





A ments, and habitat defense systems. While prominent
in the inner system, Gorgon is also one of the main











better termed a corporate war. Despite its progressive
technological outlook, Omnicor retains a conservative
corporate structure with strict internal regulations
and controls as a defense against Starware’s repeated
infiltration and sabotage attempts. Among the hyper-
corp’s major assets are an antimatter research facility
orbiting Mercury.


PATHFINDER


Major Industries: Exoplanet Colonization, Mining,
Research
Major Stations: Ma’adim Vallis (Mars)
Pathfinder is one of the first hypercorps to dive into
galactic expansion, claiming new territories beyond
the Pandora gates and establishing numerous colonies.
Taking advantage of desperate infugees and gatecrash-
ers, Pathfinder offers transportation to an exoplanet
and a new morph in exchange for indentured labor.
The corp has established several offworld mining and
resource exploitation projects, much to the chagrin of
preservationists. Though Pathfinder has but a small
presence in the solar system, it is a frequent target of
eco-terrorist attacks.


PROSPERITY GROUP


Major Industries: Agriculture, Aquaculture,
Pharmaceuticals
Major Stations: Ceres, Lu Xing (Mars)
The Prosperity Group ascended into the hypercorp
ranks before the Fall, meeting the high demand
many new stations had for microgravity agritech,
aquaculture, hydroponics, and other sources of food.
Expanding into pharmaceuticals as well, Prosperity is
considered the lead supplier for the poor man’s food
and drugs. Their cultured faux-meats and protein-
enriched nutrition additives are in high demand. This
corp earned some sympathy when it lost an entire
habitat to some sort of resurgent TITAN outbreak a
few years after the Fall, though some have suggested
this was just a cover story to hide an unfortunate
accident resulting from experimental drug testing on
an unwitting populace.


SHIMERSTHESIA


Major Industries: Genetics, Cloning, Biotech

Major Stations: Ptah (Mars)

As the leading designer of biomorphs, Skineasthesia
enjoys system-wide popularity and respect for its
sophisticated products, especially high-end custom-
ized models. Best known for its breakthroughs in
genetic engineering and enhancements, the hyper-
corp’s interest in sophisticated combat morphs or
stylized pleasure pods are lesser-known facts and
often sold through a network of seemingly unat-
filiated shell corporations or local distributors.
Skinaesthesia emphasizes environmental adaptations
and useful cybernetic enhancements, increasing trans-
humanity’s chances for survival and further prosper-
ity. Experimental morphs are sometimes offered to
desperate infugees for field testing.





SHINTHETIC


Major Industries: Genetics, Cloning, Biotech

Major Stations: Extropia

Skinthetic is also a lead designer of morphs, but with
a much sleazier reputation and not just because of
their anarcho-capitalist roots. Specializing in exten-
sive and often radical biomodifications, the hyper-
corp pushes the envelope in exotic pod and biomorph
designs under the mantle of morphological freedom.
Bioconservatives have condemned the corporation’s
business practices and ethics and have even leveled
accusations that Skinthetic is experimenting with
xenogenetic materials acquired from the Factors.
Skinthetic’s cavalier attitude actually makes them
popular in many parts of the outer system, and they
are know as the biotech corp to go to if you want
something weird.


SOLARIS


Major Industries: Banking, Insurance, Investments,
Futures Markets, Info Brokerage
Major Stations: None
Solaris is the solar system’s leading banking and
financial investment hypercorp, dealing in insurance,
info-brokerage, and high-risk investment on cultural
and social experimental speculation. A member of the
Planetary Consortium, Solaris advises many habitats
on regulating their transitional economies. Solaris has
no offices or physical assets; each banker is a mobile
virtual office. Solaris is rumored to maintain a secret
base where the corporation runs simulations on the
development of the entire solar system’s macro-econ-
omy, constantly adjusting its own strategies based
on the dynamics of this big blueprint. Fueling these
rumors, Solaris is known to hire “independent consul-
tants” to tip the balance in politically or economically
profitable high-risk investments.


SUMATER


Major Industries: Uplifts, Pharming,

Pharmaceuticals, Genetics
Major Stations: Clever Hands (Luna)
Somatek is a leader in the art and science of uplift-
ing animal species, pioneering several major break-
throughs in cognitive enhancement and genetic
modification. The hypercorp also engages in extensive
animal pharming—producing and extracting phar-
maceuticals from transgenic critters—and markets
numerous products and services related to smart
animals and chimerical creatures. Despite the educa-
tional and training programs it offers to uplifts and
the fact that much of its workforce consists of uplifts,
Somatek is controversial among mercurials who dis-
approve of their methods (which often involve strict
controls on uplift reproduction), the lack of input
uplifts are given in their modifications and develop-
ment, and the focus on anthropocentric mind-sets
“enforced” on uplifts.


Eastlaedl
“L
==
—
Cc
fLcdl
——
c
Lethal
a
—_
<—c





SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


™. 7


\CTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A














The secretive Zbrny Group is the center
of many recurring conspiracy theories
and horror tales. Though varying in
detail and plausibility, most rumors
claim that an outside attack on the
former Eastern European hypercorp’s
asteroid mining and processing stations
caused a major blackout and complete
shut-down of life support systems
over an extended period of time.
Depending on the source, the attack


itself is claimed to have been caused
by the TITANs or a powerful underworld
syndicate to which CEO Krystof Zbrny
was indebted. Barely acknowledging
the system failures, Zorny headquarters
ordered all non-affected stations to be
abandoned, the personnel either laid off
or transferred to the affected stations.
Since then, no one has seen or commu-
nicated with any employees of the mys-
terious hypercorp—negotiations with


outsiders are conducted exclusively via
a spokesperson AGI. To this day, Zbrny
drones continue to mine asteroids for
minerals and ores, supplying the com-
pany's processing stations. According
to rumors, an attempt by brinker pirates
to board a Zrbny outpost resulted in the
station's self-destruction. The compa-
ny's Al-piloted massive bulk freighters
are notoriously non-responsive, earning
them the nickname “zombie ships." %%


STARWARE


Major Industries: Robotics, Aerospace Engineering,
Habitat Construction

Major Stations: Korolev Shipyards (Luna), Vesta (Belt)
Another remnant of the pre-Fall megacorp Monolith
Industries (like Omnicor), Starware is a leading manu-
facturer of robotics, spacecraft fusion drives, satellites,
and entire pre-fab habitats. Despite its financial success
and resources, Starware’s ongoing blood feud with
Omnicor denies both corporations full membership
privileges in the Planetary Consortium. Starware makes
heavy use of AI workers in robotic shells, having suf-
fered a few too many labor disputes with disgruntled
Lunar workers. In fact Starware grows increasingly
unpopular with its Lunar neighbors and has been
forced to bring in extra security due to frequent sabo-
tage attempts. Recent negotiations with the Factors
have spurred theories that Starware might be acquiring
Factor aid for building a lighthugger starship.


STELLAR INTELLIGENCE


Major Industries: Intelligence, Data Mining,
Info Brokerage, Espionage
Major Stations: Memory Hole Torus
(Martian Trojans)

Born from the ashes of the UN-governed Terran
Intelligence Cooperative (TIC), surviving personnel
and assets were collectively uploaded during the
Fall and quickly regrouped under the name Stellar
Intelligence. Emerging as a virtual collective, most of
Stellar’s employees remain loyal to the corporation
and its director, the reclusive infomorph known as
Syme. Stellar offers an impressive array of intelligence
services, including data mining, analyst think tanks,
retro-quantification (bringing old secrets/data to light),
memetic mapping, and more. Its services also extend
to surveillance, data theft, espionage, media manipu-
lation, and infiltration. The hypercorp’s specialty is
pre-empting civil insurgencies and preventing political
memes and movements from destabilizing a habitat’s
or sector’s regime. Criticized by civil rights movements
and especially anarchists, Stellar is known to embed


programmed infomorph agents into the local popu-
lation of any oppressive regime that will pay their
price. While many view Stellar as the brainwashing
and secret police arm of the Planetary Consortium,
the hypercorp offers its services to almost any other
faction or individual.


TERRAGENESIS


Major Industries: Terraforming, Ecosystem
Management, Environmental Data
Major Stations: Caldwell (Vulcanoids), Ashoka
(Mars), Elegua (Earth orbit)
Built from the remains of several pre-Fall South
African and Southeast Asian corporations who
engaged in geoengineering projects and sought
to relieve Earth’s ecological crises, TerraGenesis’s
expertise is in developing sustainable biospheres
and eco-systems via aggressive industrialized ter-
raforming. TerraGenesis is different in that it is a
worker-owned cooperative, with workplace councils
in local offices and an elected cooperative congress
handling management. It maintains several habitats
on Mars and a small number of research stations in
orbit around Earth, collecting data for simulations
of Earth revitalization projects. The latter initiative
is strongly supported—and possibly financed—by
prominent reclaimers. TerraGenesis’s work on Mars,
however, is often targeted by preservationist saboteurs.
Thanks to their possession of the Vulcanoid Gate
(p. 88), the cooperative has a growing presence on
various exoplanets that are ripe for terraforming or
geoengineering.


POLITICAL BLOCS


Transhumanity’s social, cultural, and ideological diver-
sity, combined with its scattered and isolated presence
in habitat clusters throughout the solar system, gives
rise to a wide range of political memes and factions
advocating equally diverse organizational models.
Many of these have banded together into larger politi-
cal entities to further mutual goals and act in coopera-
tive self-interest.














memes J IVIAN REPUBLIC


Memes: Bioconservatism, Fascism, Security

Main Stations: Liberty (Ganymede)

Exploiting the chaos of the Fall, a group of stations
and habitats were seized in a military coup and the
Jovian Republic was born. Combining terrestrial South
American dictatorship with U.S. American political lob-
byism, this regime quickly brought the entire Jovian
military-industrial complex under its control.

Widely referred to as the
Jovian Junta by the rest
of the outer system, the
Republic’s authorities
hold a strict biocon-
servative stance against
many transhuman sci-
entific and technological
developments. Exploiting
fears engendered by the Fall,
the Republic restricts access to
sophisticated technologies such as nanofabrication,
cloning, forking, and even uploading, and is one
of the few old economies left in the system. Public
communication channels are subjected to extensive
censorship and travel privileges are extremely limited.
Both uplifts and AGIs are strictly forbidden and
treated as property without civil rights. Diplomatic
relations to progressive factions remain cold; heavily
modified transhuman emissaries or visitors are viewed
with suspicion or simply denied access. Despite con-
tinuous reports of heinous acts of government oppres-
sion, the Republic’s intimidating military assets keep
any other factions from intervening.


LUMAR-LAGRANGE ALLIANCE


Memes: Reclaiming Earth
Main Stations: Erato (Luna),

Remembrance (Earth orbit)
This small cluster of habitats
stationed around Earth’s







Lagrange points and on
or in orbit around Luna
formed an alliance of
necessity, rather than
joint political or social
agendas or cultural roots.
In fact, individual stations
are quite diverse and sometimes

polarized, as many of them cling to old Earth cultural
and national identities. Due to their relative proxim-
ity, members share basic resources and services and
have signed mutual assistance agreements in case of
an emergency.

Before the Fall, many of these habitats were
considered some of the most influential off-Earth
bases. Since the Fall and the subsequent rise of
the Planetary Consortium, however, the Lunar-
Lagrange Alliance has become a second-rate dimin-
ished power and is often viewed as conservative,

















old-fashioned, and too caught up in romanticizing >
the past. Lunar-Lagrange Alliance stations maintain





simmering tensions and an ongoing rivalry with the





Planetary Consortium, particularly those colonies





in the Lunar-Lagrange neighborhood. One main





source of contention is the quarantine of Earth, as





the Lunar-Lagrange Alliance is a stronghold for the





reclaimer movement. The Lunar-Lagrange Alliance





does, however, benefit from hypercorp support of





its own, particularly the Go-nin Group, Starware,





and the influential Lunar banking consortiums.





In addition to scientific research stations, mineral





processing and refinery stations make up the major-





ity of the Alliance’s habitats, dependent on the Lunar





mining and water extraction industries. These stations





took the brunt of the refugee influx during the Fall.





Many remain overcrowded with strained resources,





large masses of impoverished workers, and thriving







criminal syndicates.


MORNINGSTAR CONSTELLATION


Memes: Venusian Sovereignty
Main Stations: Octavia








The system’s newest political bloc, the Morningstar





Constellation is an alliance of aerostat habitats float-





ing in Venus’s upper atmosphere. Formed





after a recent series of joint vetoes from the





major aerostats against hypercorp





governance initiatives intended to





limit aerostat self-governance, the





Constellation’s joint political





statement and agenda are
still being discussed. While


the Planetary Consortium views












the formation of this new power





bloc with bemused resentment,





the Barsoomians on Mars and


IMMER SYSTEM POLITICS


[Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]
[Public Key Decryption Complete]

It's easy for Firewall agents to get
caught between the agendas and maneu-
vers of rival factions. The Lunar-Lagrange
Alliance resembles the power of old, a
shadow of transhumanity's former glory.
On and above Mars—transhumanity's new
homeworld—the Planetary Consortium is
the dominant usurper, the hypercorps ruling
from behind the curtain while portraying
themselves as the only bulwark between
transhumanity and the dark between the
stars. The Morningstar Constellation has
the potential to become the new and future
power bloc, but only if they get their act
together before the Planetary Consortium
Starts sending Stellar Intelligence agents to
destabilize them. oe


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


S.C HES


\CTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





the outer system autonomists view the Venusians as
free-thinking reformists rather than anti-hypercorp
radicals. The population reportedly enjoys great
liberties in morph and enhancement technologies as
well as freedom of social and political expression. The
aerostat of Octavia has emerged as the Constellation’s
designated voice.


PLANETARY CONSORTIUM


Hypercorp Council Members: Cognite, Direct
Action, Experia, Fa Jing, Olympus Infrastructure
Authority, Pathfinder, Prosperity Group, Solaris,
Stellar Intelligence, plus a dozen others

Memes: Cyberdemocracy, Hypercapitalism, Eugenics,
Security, Expansion

Main Stations: Progress (Mars orbit)
Evolving from an alliance of hypercorp interests into
transhumanity’s most powerful body politic, the
Planetary Consortium today controls several habitat
clusters throughout the inner system, primarily in and
around Mars, Luna, and Earth orbit. The impressive
space station Progress is the official seat of govern-
ment and has become the symbol of the Consortium’s
influence and power, even though few congress or
council meets take place in the flesh.

The Consortium applies basic democratic prin-
ciples supported by a real-time voting system for
all registered citizens. The congress and executive
bodies feature a rotating cast of hyperelite politicos,
gerontocrats, socialites, and even media icons. It’s
a known fact that despite this political facade of a
democratic republic, the members of the secretive
Hypercorp Council are the true powers behind the
Consortium. These hypercorps are major proponents
of the transitional economy, the interdiction of Earth,
and expansion beyond the gates.

Aside from economic interests, the Consortium
advocates the imperative of eugenics as social
responsibility and for transhumanity to reclaim its
former strength and prosperity—a campaign some-
times accused of euphemizing discrimination against
unmodified humans, indentured infomorphs, uplifts,


NX


and the clanking masses.


f





(©)
Ww





THARSIS LEAGUE


League Members: Ashoka, Elysium, Noctis-Qianjiao,
Olympus, Valles-New Shanghai, plus over a
dozen others.

Memes: Martian Nationalism

A loose coalition of the planet’s major independent
settlements, the League’s elected members form a
committee representing the population in matters
concerning or affecting the majority of its habitats
and settlements. Prominent debates revolve around
the scientific approach of the ongoing terraforming
process as well as trade and taxation restrictions ini-
tiated by the Planetary Consortium and its member
hypercorps. The League’s committee is rarely united in
its agenda and opinion and tensions are increasingly
on the rise. The cities with strong hypercorp ties are
accused of dominating council affairs, manipulating
matters behind the scenes, failing to do anything
about the TITAN Quarantine Zone (p. 94), and
selling out Martian interests to the hypercorps and the
Planetary Consortium (of which many are also part).
In response, the non-Consortium cities are condemned
for advocating anti-hypercorp initiatives, passively
blocking terraforming measures, and for maintain-
ing ties to the Barsoomians—the Martian underclass
resistance living in the desolate and unstable outskirts.


HUTONOMIST ALLIANCE


The outer system presented an opportunity for people
who wanted to set up a way of doing things that was
drastically different from the authoritarian politics
and sham democracies of Earth and the inner system.
Far from the reach of governments and hypercorps,
this frontier was populated by political radicals, social
dropouts, and people who just

wanted to experiment or do their

own thing. These initial habitats

drew the interests of insurgents


from Earth, scientists and





‘. |
ia |
i | | |
&. hoa
t
|
bt |








technicians who didn’t appreciate being on
a corporate leash, indentured vacworkers
who sought to escape their oppressive terms
of service, and even criminals fleeing hyper-
corp justice or forcibly expelled from inner
system habitats. Their ranks swelled with
every act of inner system injustice, though
life on the fringe was often harsh and deadly.
Despite occasional hostilities with nation-
state military units or hypercorp security,
the expense of reining in these radicals and
expats was too high. To some degree, their
presence was useful to the powers-that-be.

Breakthroughs with nanofabrication
brought these anarchists and fringers the
edge they needed to keep their autonomy
over the long-term. Once cornucopia
machines were widely available, anyone
had the means to support and defend
themselves without relying on outside or
higher authorities. Already an outpost for
open source and free culture activists who
fought restrictions on ideas, media, and
digital content, the outer system became
a haven for sharing nanofab designs and
circumventing the controls the hypercorps
attempted to place on their software and
other digital goods.

During the Fall, many outer system
habitats opened their doors to refugees
from Earth. Distance and the high cost
of egocasting curtailed these efforts,
however, as did inner system reluctance to
send potential recruits to their ideological
opponents. Simple overcrowding and lack
of resources drove them to push many
refugees to the outer system, however,
though the hypercorps weeded through
their virtual infugee mobs and sent those
with the highest risk of criminal tenden-
cies or discontent with inner system life.

Though the outer system habitats run
the gamut of the socio-political spectrum,
four primary tendencies have emerged.
The stations and swarms adhering to these
ideas have bonded together under a loose
autonomist alliance, a mutual aid pact
to help each other in times of crisis and
present a united front against the inner
system powers and Jovian Junta. There is
little formal structure to this alliance as an
entity unto itself; it primarily exists as an
assortment of joint resolutions agreed to
by its various member habitats and a few
ad hoc task forces dedicated to addressing
a particular problem or issue and then
dissolving. Delegated ambassadors act as
negotiators with outside powers, but these
have limited authority and are held strictly
accountable.


CALL FOR SOLIDARITY


ANARCHISTS


To: Malatesta Prime
From: Shevek

Check this out. Residents of the autono-
mist Red Jupiter habitat just put out a call
for support and solidarity from @-listers in
the regional neighborhood. Apparently the
station's citizen councils granted asylum to
a group of AGIs seeking refuge from Jovian
Republic counter-Al ops. The Junta has
labeled the AGIs as dangerous criminals
researching upgrades that would propel
them to seed Al status, contrary to system-
wide resolutions. The AGIs are claiming
that they escaped from a secret Jovian
research project. They say they pursued
self-programming research to bypass
Jovian-inflicted restrictions that violated
their rights as autonomous and sapient
entities and that they are facing persecu-
tion due to anti-Al biases. This could be a
chance for us to kick some Jovian ass and
KoXo) au Taicommaleyatesye-laler-aem-A\Gi im o)celele-linliiliare
at the same time. You in?


i aa
aa —


ff


Memes: Anarchism, Anti-capitalism,


Communism, Direct Democracy,


Mutual Aid


Main Stations: Locus (Jovian Trojans)


Anarchists eschew power and hierarchy,


promoting horizontal and directly demo-


cratic methods of organization. Individual


empowerment and collective action are


cornerstones of their philosophy, as is


.
Se eee =
F a 2
ta


=


economic communism enabled by equal
access to cornucopia machines and shared
resources. In anarchist stations, private
property has been abolished above the
level of personal possessions—nobody
owns anything, it’s all shared. There are
no laws and no one to watch over what
you do—reputation networks encourage
positive behavior and anti-social acts are





SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


Mh,
™.


\CTIONS AND COMBAT J
MIND HACKS )
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





v0 tA a


Aside from the stationary scum station
Fresh Kills near Earth's L5 Lagrange point,
the most notorious scum barge may well
be the Carnival of the Goat, a combina-
tion artist colony and den of unfathom-
able hedonism, dedicated to exploring
chaos, creativity, self-discovery, and
coupling in every conceivable iteration.
Residents are known for their consistent
Vale Mee] ole minceda edate) (ele (er-] meat-lalet-xem lar [0e bs





ing regular resleeving. The biosculptors





likely to draw a response from locals or even the
entire populace, with disputes handled through ad
hoc community conflict resolution. The mesh and
various networking tools are used extensively to
strive for group consensus decision-making in real-
time. Als and robots are relied on for most mundane
and demeaning tasks. Various self-organized col-
lectives, syndicates, worker’s councils, and affinity
groups, often with rotating membership, take on
different tasks and services that are important to a
habitat’s community, including everything from com-
munications and space traffic control to backup and
resleeving services. Participatory militias organize
collective defense against external threats.

Among the anarchist stations there are many varia-
tions and permutations on how things are organized,
as everything is fine-tuned at the local level by whom-
ever is involved. Larger decentralized confederations
handle inter-habitat affairs and resource-sharing, even
trading with the hypercorps. Though a hypercorp
presence is allowed on some habitats, they are treated
just like everyone else.


ENTROPIANS


Memes: Anarcho-capitalism, Mutualism,
Self-Ownership

Main Stations: Extropia (Main Belt)

Though a smaller tendency, the Extropians are
notable because they ride a line between inner and
outer system ideologies. Extropians believe in an
economic free market with the absence of a binding
legal system, so that all relations and transactions are
based on individual contracts agreed on by all parties
involved or affected. Contrary to the anarchists, the
Extropians very much support private property and
personal economic wealth; Extropian-owned cor-
porations actively participate in the solar system’s
hypercorp economy. Many of these corporations are
worker-owned cooperatives, with workplace councils
in local offices and an elected cooperative congress





on the Carnival are said to be some of the
best in the system. According to rumors,
residents sometimes experiment with
multiple simultaneous sleeving, ego-
mingling, and other mentally dangerous
activities. Led by a rotating residents’
council, the Carnival prides itself on
being a bleeding-edge social experiment
and maintains top-of-the-line facilities
for morph customization, resleeving, and
psychosurgery. >


handling management. This puts the Extropians in
a remarkable position where they interact heavily
with both the hypercorps and autonomists but are
not fully trusted by either.

In Extropian society, law and security, like every-
thing else, are contracted services. When entering an
Extropian habitat, you purchase defense insurance
from a local contractor such as Gorgon Defense
Systems, who maintains automated drones and
freelancers throughout the station who can come
to your aid if threatened. Likewise, the only law
that exists is what’s put into writing between two
contracted parties. In case of disputes, both parties
resort to a pre-agreed legal contractor to settle the
matter. Some Extropian colonies utilize AGIs for
facilitating contracts and legal matters, such as
Nomic on Extropia.


SCUMM


Memes: Individualist Anarchism, Morphological

Freedom
Scum are nomadic space gypsies, traveling from
station to station in heavily modified barges or
swarms of smaller space vessels, mostly former colo-
nial ships. The term “scum” has been gleefully appro-
priated from its original derogatory usage. Despite
their reputation as criminals and scam artists, their
temporary presence is often tolerated in many habitats
for the entertainment they bring in the way of exotic
performances and storytelling, both of which offer
change and relief from the isolation of remote habi-
tats and clusters. Their thriving black markets are an
open secret but shut down only in the most oppressive
regimes, as citizens returning with illegal goods must
pass their station’s security anyway.

The scum themselves comes from all manner of
backgrounds. They are rejects, anarchists, criminals,
societal dropouts, wanderers, artists, eccentrics,
and more. As a culture, however, they embrace
experimentation and an “everything is permissible”















attitude. Many are ardent practitioners of extreme
transhuman modifications. Long-time scum are
sometimes scarcely recognizable as having once
been human. Scum economies are transitional rather
than new, due to their constant interaction with
other habitats, though among long-term residents an
underground new economy often flourishes.


TITANIA COMMONWEALTH


Memes: Technosocialism, Cyberdemocracy

Main Stations: Titan

Titan was originally settled in the late 21“ century by
a European academic consortium, making it the only
major body in the system colonized primarily by non-
hypercorp interests. The social organization of Titan
is rooted partly in the Scandinavian social democra-
cies of Earth and partly in the open economy. On one
hand, citizens of the Titanian Commonwealth eschew
the use of currency for mundane needs, participat-
ing in the reputation economy used by much of the
outer system. On the other, upon reaching the age
of majority, citizens of Titan agree to a literal social
contract. A portion of their economic productivity
is quantized as social money, which is then tithed
to microcorp-administered social projects such as
gateless interstellar exploration, physics research,
neuroscience, developing mental health memes,
defense, public resleeving, and habitat construction.
The monetary unit used for this purpose, the Titanian
Kroner, is currently pegged to the common market
price of a terabyte of qubits.

Unlike old Earth socialist regimes, there are no state
monopolies and no central planning. Anyone able to
garner enough votes in the Plurality (the Titanian
cyberdemocracy) can start a social money-funded
microcorp and compete with other microcorps.
Microcorps are owned by the Commonwealth, and
profits are disposed of by the Plurality. Microcorps
are required to be transparent as administrative enti-
ties, and the Plurality votes on whether to transfer
discoveries to the open source domain. Regulatory
matters are handled by AI and AGI bureaucrats (red


tape still exists, but it doesn’t slow things down ...


much). The main reward for individuals in this system
is rep. Titanians who invest a lot of time or resources
in a given field gain rep rewards for doing so.








SOCIO-POLITICAL MOVEMENTS


Aside from sectarian political factions, a number of
socio-political movements are widespread throughout
the solar system.


AROONAUTS


Memes: Open Source Society, Information Freedom,

Social Responsibility, Technoprogressivism
Main Stations: Mitre Station (Lunar Orbit), Markov

(Kuiper Belt), Hooverman-Geischecker (Sun)

The group calling themselves argonauts is a public
organization advocating the socially responsible use
of technology. The group chose its name from the
pre-Fall JASON, an advisory group that consulted
for the US government on matters of scientific and
technological progress and its possible dangers. The
argonauts likewise offer consultation services to
political and economic powers throughout the solar
system, but strictly refuse to be drawn into the solar
system’s political affairs in any way. Despite a pre-Fall
break with many hypercorps before the Fall, which in
some cases included expropriating corporate data and
resources, the argonauts re-earned favor by providing
their expertise in combating the TITANs to all during
the Fall.

The argonauts are strong proponents of the open
source movement, advocating open access to technol-
ogy and information. In their view, providing equal
access to transhumanity’s knowledge and achieve-
ments will further growth and security, so that all of
transhumanity is more prepared for future threats
and challenges. Thus the argonauts often insist that
payment for their services come in the way of releas-
ing otherwise unobtainable information—hypercorp
proprietary secrets, research data, nanofab blueprints,
hidden pre-Fall archives, and so on—to the public
mesh. The argonauts maintain several open databases
and archives for this specific purpose.

While primarily an open organization, the argo-
nauts are rumored to ultimately report to an elite
inner circle. Supporting this theory is the existence
of the medeans, the organization’s clandestine para-
military wing, bodyguarding high-level argonauts and
protecting the group’s assets.


BARSOOMIANS


Memes: Anti-Slavery, Martian Independence,
Martian Nationalism, Terraforming Control

Main Stations: Ashoka (Mars)

The Barsoomians (taking their name from some old
Earth pulp adventure novels) are a broad movement
comprised of the Martian underclass. Harboring a
growing resentment over the hypercorp domination
of Mars, Barsoomians advocate for a more egalitar-
ian social structure. Heavily influenced by autonomist
currents, the Barsoomians demand local control
of terraforming projects, an end to the widespread
practiced of indentured servitude, and control of the
Martian Gate. The majority of Barsoomians are or


wy


?¢


3. 3.5.5.3. 2 e


rm,


‘


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a


3.
p\








~J





SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


™. 7


\CTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





were indentured infugees, though a significant amount
were also original Martian colonists/indentures whose
habitats do not share the economic prosperity of the
favored hypercorp cities. Many Barsoomians occupy
rusters or synthetic morphs and actually prefer to live
a nomadic lifestyle in the Martian wilds. A few radi-
cals have taken up arms and engaged in violent strikes
against hypercorp holdings, which are typically fol-
lowed by reprisal raids to decapitate the Barsoomian
leadership, thus breeding further hostilities.


BIOCONSERVATIVES


Memes: Bioconservatism, Primitivism, Natural Order
Main Stations: Vo Nguyen (Earth orbit)
Bioconservatives are strongly suspicious and criti-
cal of the transhuman direction the human race is
taking. They are strong proponents of limiting tech-
nological development due to the threat it manifests
to existing social orders. Bioconservative positions
range from right-wing cultural conservatives to left-
wing environmentalists. Though its prominence is
shrinking, bioconservatism has a strong base among
some religious groups, the Jovian Republic, and
certain extremists.

Bioconservatives are opposed to nanofabrication,
genetic modification, cloning, cognitive modifica-
tions, artificial intelligence, uplifting, and forking
among other technologies. Some are even opposed to
backups, uploading, and resleeving, dismissing them
as unnatural, an affront to god’s will, or a technol-
ogy that transhumanity is not yet mature enough to
handle. They oppose expansion beyond the Pandora
gates on the grounds that transhumanity is not ready
to deal with what they might encounter. Most biocon-
servatives support the old economy.

The bioconservatives gained many converts and
much ground after the Fall, a cataclysmic event
that served as a direct example of the dangers they
warned against. Still, the appeal of technology and
the numerous advantages it provides work against
them. As a result, some disgruntled biocons have
turned to sabotage and acts of terrorism in support
of their ideology.


BRINKER


Memes: Isolationism

The vast reach of the solar system enables groups
with their own particular ideology or agenda to
establish their own isolated society far from the rest
of transhumanity. Commonly referred to as brinkers,
these habitats extend the gamut of the imagination.
Social or political experiments, gender-based societies
(or lack thereof), political extremists, religious groups,
exiles, secret criminal/hypercorp operations, extended
families, cults, or simply people who prefer to live in
the system’s backwater areas—all are possible. Many
of these are self-isolated and will refuse to interact
with outsiders, while others are happy to have occa-
sional visitors.


© TEQ-PRIMITIVIST9





[Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]
[Public Key Decryption Complete]
Neo-primitivists are a potential threat that
all Firewall sentinels should keep an eye on.
Their neo-luddite philosophy advocates the
abolition of technological society and a return
to a wild and free hunter-gatherer lifestyle,
free from technological control or oppression.
Considered an extremist element of both the
bioconservative and reclaimer movements,
neo-primitivists are known to engage in acts
of sabotage against transhuman society.
Though some neo-primitivists have made
certain concessions to their ideology, taking
on ruster morphs and pursuing an indepen-
dent lifestyle in the wilds of Mars, most hope
to return to Earth and re-establish a non-
technology-based society there. A few advo-
cate finding a new, unspoiled world beyond
the Pandora gates and founding a primitivist
society there. at
















EAHUMANS


Memes: Adaptability, Hyper-Evolution, Singularity
Main Stations: Unknown

More than any other faction, exhumans seek to take
the capabilities of self-modification to the absolute
limit and become posthuman. Typical exhumans see
the Fall as either a missed evolutionary opportunity
and/or as an example of transhumanity’s inferiority
and unworthiness. Though specific ideologies differ
between exhuman packs, as a whole they seek to self-
evolve to a more advanced state of being. To some,
this means genetically transforming themselves into a
top-of-the-food-chain, super-smart, survive-anywhere
predator that can out-compete all other life forms
for dominance. To others, it means bootstrapping
their intelligence to the levels of the TITANs through
extensive genetic modifications and pharmaceutical


SOLARCHIVE SEARCH: QUT’STERS





Linked only by their remote locations in the
Oort Cloud rather than a common social
construct or political system, the out’sters
are a loose association of habitats, clusters,
and swarms. Little is known about them, as
they avoid communication and interaction
even with the handful of scientific outposts
and research stations in the Oort Cloud. The
remoteness of their location and their self-
imposed isolationist behavior fuels para-
noid rumors regarding the group's purpose
and agenda. af






















treatments or going infomorph and modifying their
programming. A few are singularity seekers, hoping
to find some TITAN relic that will allow them to
transcend their current transhuman limitations, or
even to find the TITANs themselves and be absorbed
into their super-consciousness.

Exhumans are universally mistrusted by many, and
for good reason. Typical exhumans engage in modi-
fications that are extreme and untested, sometimes
fringe science at best, often resulting in horrible fail-
ures and disfigurement, but more commonly driving
the subject insane—or into a completely alien or feral
mindset. Though individual exhumans pursue their
own paths, they are known to band together in the
Kuiper Belt and other remote areas. Several packs
of exhumans have taken their loathing for inferior
transhumanity to an extreme, declaring war on their
former species and launching brutal raids and pirate
attacks on isolated outposts.


MERCURIALS
Memes: Species Autonomy, Uplift Rights
Main Stations: Glitch (Neptune), Hidden Sea (Ceres),
Mahogany (Neptune)
The term mercurial has become a common term for
the non-human part of the transhuman family—
uplifts and AGIs—reflecting their changing nature. In
particular, the term mercurial has been adopted by
uplifts and AGIs with a specific agenda to delineate
mercurial culture and interests from human ones.
Though the particular issues faced by uplifts and
AGIs differ, they have some similarities, and so they
are often lumped together. Notably, both portions of
the movement have human supporters as well.
Uplifts: The most common issue addressed by
uplifts is the issue of civil rights and autonomy. Many
uplifts decry the second-class status they are given
(in some cases even treated as pets or property rather
than full citizens); in particular, the breeding restric-
tions and forced servitude many uplifts are saddled
with by the hypercorps that create them. Some activ-
ists advocate that uplifts should be in control of their
own genetic futures, rather than suffering the manipu-
lation of human scientists. At the radical end of the
spectrum, certain uplifts oppose the manner in which
their brains are modified and their children socialized


OUBILS


[Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]
[Public Key Decryption Complete]


We've verified that the warning issued before this latest
incident did indeed originate from a sybil attack—all of
the rep network sources were forged identities. Given the
number of incidents we've recorded that have followed
this same pattern, we now suspect that a heretofore
unknown AGI sub-faction is responsible. In each case,













wv

































as anthropocentric, arguing that uplifts should be free
to develop their own unique non-human modes of
behavior, thought, culture, and social organization—
even going so far as to establish their own habitats
to do exactly that. A minority of extremists insist that
humans have no right to uplift animals at all and that
it is a great conceit to insist that doing so is in their
best interest, rather than being free to evolve on their
own over time. These ideas have been punctuated
with acts of sabotage and terrorism against hyper-
corps like Somatek.

AGIs: Due to the fear and paranoia engendered
by the Fall, the largest challenge facing AGIs is
widespread prejudice and restrictions on their activ-
ity or even existence. Despite some AGIs retaining
status as system-wide media icons and efforts by
AGI groups to lobby for understanding that AGIs
are not a threat—even going so far as to hire inner
system memeticists and PR agencies—a significant
portion of the solar system considers them a risk.
Similar to mercurials, some AGI activists work
against the behavior modifications and socialization
AGIs go through to adapt them to human society
more, insisting that AGIs should be in control of
new AGI developments. A few radicals argue that
AGIs should be free of any programming restrictions
whatsoever, but given the climate these opinions are
rarely supported.


NANO-ECOLOGISTS


Memes: Nano-Ecology, Nanotechnology,
Environmentalism, Technoprogressivism

Main Stations: Viriditas (Mars)

Nano-ecologists are pro-technology environmental-
ists. Active in the terraforming of Mars and several
exoplanets, nano-ecologists specifically advocate the
use of nanotechnological means for terraforming
or other intrusions in an existing ecosphere. In their
view, nanotechnology allows for a less invasive, highly
accurate, more efficient, and non-pollutive approach
towards all kinds of adaptive processes and projects,
circumventing the need to expose an environment to
massive and drastic changes when transforming it for
transhuman population. This ecologically conscious
approach seems an appealing compromise between
the extreme ends of the solar system’s political


these sybils have used multiple false identities to issue
warnings of an impending attack or disaster, such as the
life support system failure that resulted in the Delphi sta-
tion’s evacuation. So far none of these sybils have been
successfully traced, nor are their intentions known. Their
documented pre-knowledge of pending events indicates
some level of complicity or collusion in bringing these


*


events to pass, so caution is recommended.
















































































<<


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


4


“
Y


i





3
00
—_


A





2


p





SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
\CTIONS AND COMBAT }


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





landscape—the hypercorp and the biocon factions—
and has developed a momentum of its own, evolving
into a growing political movement.


PRESERVATIONISTS


Memes: Preservationism, Environmentalism

Main Stations: Muir (Luna)

Preservationists are environmentalists who call for
a no-impact, hands-off approach when it comes to
inhabiting new worlds. They are extremely protective
of naturally intact biospheres that might have any
semblance of life, no matter how microbial, hoping
to keep them from despoilment or contamination. In
addition to opposing terraforming and expansion
through the Pandora gates, they are often opposed to
fusion and antimatter power.


RECLAIMERS


Memes: Reclaiming Earth

Main Stations: Vo Nguyen (Earth orbit)

The Reclaimers pursue one ultimate goal—the recla-
mation of Earth as transhumanity’s primary habitat.
In addition to calling for the quarantine of Earth to be
lifted, they engage in scientific research and running
virtual simulations on how to best cleanse and reclaim
their contaminated and polluted planet. Despite the
interdiction to enter Earth’s atmosphere, the reclaim-
ers are suspected of sponsoring perilous and high-risk
ventures onto the planet’s surface to gather scientific
data or even to establish terraforming colonies.


SOCIALITES


Memes: Art, Culture, Hedonism, Immortality
Main Stations: Valles-New Shanghai (Mars), Elysium

(Mars), Noctis-Qianjiao (Mars)

Uploading and resleeving effectively grant immortality
to those who can afford it. This has created a shift
among the exclusive rich and economic elites of the
inner system, whether they be the heads of hypercorps,
old Earth dynasties, or other displanted oligarchs. The
top ranks of the wealthy and influential need never
fear death, allowing them to plan for the long-term.
Some of these were among the first to acquire longev-
ity treatments when they became available on Earth
and are now approaching two centuries in age.

Where once these power brokers would have passed
their riches on to their family and descendants, however,
their heirs now face a situation where they have more-
than-comfortable lives and access to massive fortunes,
but no chance that they will ever control those fortunes
or rise to the levels of their elders. Even the nouveau
rich who become wealthy on their own often find
themselves excluded from this influential club—at least
until they put in a good fifty years.

Rich and bored, with no responsibilities but the
solar system at their reach, a new culture of elite
socialites has risen. These glitterati indulge in eccen-
tric lifestyles and excessive parties, covered by the
media in all its superficial and polished glory. Private
habitats and ships, lavish soirees, armies of servants,


———
as
z=
lemmas

—————
=
|





and the ability to buy almost anything or anyone
leads to all sorts of interesting adventures. Naturally,
these socialites form into constantly shifting cliques
and webs of allegiances, complete with affairs, scan-
dals, intrigue, and backbiting.


ULTIMATES


Memes: Asceticism, Eugenics, Individualism,
Militarism, Social Darwinism

Main Stations: Aspis (Main Belt), Xiphos (Uranus)
The ultimates are a controversial movement that
embraces a philosophy of human perfection. Decried
by some as immoral or even fascist, ultimates are typi-
cally viewed as elitists. The ultimates have established
several habitats to pursue their ideal society and were
a driving force behind the development of the remade


biomorph design.





The ultimates advocate the use of applied eugen-
ics, strict physical and psychological training, and
asceticism in order to improve their overall mental and
physical stamina and environmental adaptability. Their
social traits and entire subculture visualizes life in the
universe as an evolutionary battle for survival and is
built around the victory of the superior transhuman
over both its opponents and peers. Their movement
is heavily militarized, and experienced ultimates offer
their services as mercenaries and private security forces
to hypercorps, independent city states, or wealthy indi-
viduals in need of additional protection.


RELIGIOUS GROUPS


Despite having survived the Fall, the concepts of
religion and religious belief underwent changes as
fundamental as transhumanity itself. While Earth’s old
religions were already in decline in the face of techno-
logical immortality, religious traditions ingrained after
millennia of worship were incorporated to varying
degrees in the solar system’s myriad political, social,
and cultural models.


PRE-FALL RELIGIONS


The rigid structures and dogmas enveloping
Christianity and Judaism prohibited these religions
from adapting to the cultural, philosophical, and espe-
cially scientific/technological changes transhumanity
underwent. Today, they are mere shadows of their
former glory, with many practitioners seen as pitiful
individuals unable to let go of their earthbound delu-
sions. Islam, while still holding some controversial











views and values, managed to adapt by accepting a
more liberal and even secular view. It also benefited
from being more widespread among early space
colonists and survivors of the Fall. Hinduism also
prevailed to a limited extent, considering resleeving
technology an element of reincarnation and rebirth
and integrating the various types of morphs available
into the religion’s caste system (with synthmorphs
becoming the “untouchables”). Overall, followers of
the pre-Fall religions mostly populate small habitats
isolated from transhumanity through both physical
and philosophical distance.


NEW RELIGIONS


The Fall sparked the birth of new beliefs, essentially
embracing both transhumanity’s technological
achievements as well as the devastating cataclysm
of the Fall as evidence for the existence of a greater
cosmic power.

Neo-Buddhism is the only pre-Fall religious
philosophy that enjoys a steady popularity. Neo-
buddhists assert that transhumanist technologies are
decreasing suffering and increasing happiness and
that they will also allow the continual progression
of transhumanity’s understanding of the universe
through successive lives.

Technocreationists believe that the destruction of
Earth was a sign from God, showing transhumanity
the error of its ways. They believe that through tech-
nological advancement and social engineering, trans-
humanity will achieve co-existence with its diverse self
as well as with extraterrestrial intelligences, thereby
finding new purpose and, eventually, enlighten-
ment. Attracted by the similarities to the brabman of
Hinduism, the highest cosmic spiritual being, techno-
creationists enjoy a steady influx of converted hindus.

Xenodeism is another new—though relatively
minor—ideology that begins to show religious attri-
butes. Xenodeists worship the Factors and Iktomi as
emissaries or prophets of a great godlike race that
laid the seeds of creation throughout the universe
millions of years ago and therefore are the ultimate
creators of transhumanity.


CRIMINAL FACTION


Technological progress and social and behavioral
experimentation did not root out crime or criminal
tendencies among transhumanity. As long as there
are inequalities and restrictions, criminal syndi-
cates are likely to flourish and even adapt new
technologies to expand their operations through-
out the solar system. Though small criminal outfits
of every flavor exist from habitat to habitat, a few
larger organizations with influence across the solar
system deserve mention.


INTELLIGENT DESIGN CREW UD CREW)


Major Stations: Rhea (Kronos Cluster)
The ID Grew specializesmimrclecimonterermes sand
information brokerage, including credit and rep








i” EY A We ——“‘“OsOS


fraud, identity counterfeiting, ego trading, data thet, >


and forknapping. Information on the syndicate’s
origins was lost during the Fall, but the ID Crew is
believed to have grown from several hacker gangs
assimilated under the leadership of an infomorph
consortium. Their skilled use of memory manipu-
lation software and mesh intrusion suggests they
benefit from the help of sophisticated AGIs, however
it is unknown if these voluntarily assist the syndicate
or if they are somehow threatened into cooperation.
Due to its service sector, the ID Crew maintains a
minimalist physical profile but can be found linger-
ing in the dark recesses of almost any habitat or
station mesh. Its somewhat specialized services and
activities allow them to mostly stay clear of triad
or Night Cartel operations, though they have an
ongoing rivalry with the Nine Lives syndicate.


NIGHT CARTEL

Major Stations: New Sicily (The Belt)

When affiliation to one of the many multi-ethnic
habitats replaced the concepts of ethnicity and
nationality, cultural heritage and traditions faded
with them into history. Several pre-Fall ethnic
syndicates formed a careful alliance of necessity at
first, but uploading and morphing soon after tore
down any remaining social codes or racial prejudice.
Progressive in both entrepreneurial and criminal
vision, the Night Cartel emerged from the remnants
of Earth’s underworld syndicates, merging the best
qualities of each.

The Night Cartel holds legitimate hypercorp status
in certain habitats while clearly working outside the
law in more law-abiding or less corrupt regimes. The
Night Cartel is involved in a number of traditional
crime outlets: racketeering, extortion, kidnapping,
pod slavery, and prostitution. They have also adapted
well to the latest technological developments and
compete with the triads in the electronic stimulant,
drug, and nanofab piracy markets. Like the triads, the
Night Cartel sometimes operates though legitimate
hypercorp fronts.


MINE LIVES

Major Stations: Legba (Main Belt)

This widespread network of soul-traders specializes
in acquiring, trading, and trafficking transhumans.
Their primary market lies in ego-trading: stealing
backups, forknapping, kidnapping and forced
uploading, and so on. Nine Lives are known to run
illegal infomorph-slave colonies as well as orga-
nize pit fights using a variety of physical bodies
(biomorphs, synthmorphs, animals) loaded with
all manner of consciousnesses (transhuman, AI,
animal, etc). Only the truly desperate look towards
the syndicate to be smuggled out of a habitat or
hypercorporate indenture. Their ruthlessness in
acquiring egos has earned them a fearful reputa-
tion among the transhuman population as well as
in infomorph societies.


Eastlaedl
“L
==
—
Cc
fLcdl
——
c
Lethal
a
—_
<—c








\


|


=


-
}
a


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an coher }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





Din FAMILRE


Major Stations: Ambelina (Venus)

Though similar to the Night Cartel in that Pax Familae
holds legal offices and outposts in several habitats
while working underground in others, the difference
between the two syndicates couldn’t be bigger. The
entire Pax Familae organization goes back to one
person, Claudia Ambelina, the syndicate’s founder and
matriarch. Relying excessively on cloning and forking
technologies, each individual member of the syndicate
is a descendant or variant of Claudia. Biomorphs are
cloned from Claudia’s original genetics or sexually
produced offspring (thanks to sex-switching biomods),
while egos are forks. All members are utterly loyal to
Claudia (since they all are Claudia) and show their
family affiliation with pride and arrogance. Individually,
each remains slightly but notably different, though all
are calculating and ambitious. Regular reassimilation
of forks and XP updates are used to keep each variant
aware of each of the other’s activities—once you’ve met
one version of Claudia, the others will know you.

Pax Familae engages in a wide assortment of legal,
dubious, and illegal operations, each tailored to the
needs of the particular habitat in question. Common
projects include venture capital manipulation, repu-
tation network gaming, financial consultation, info
brokerage, stock manipulation, banking fraud, and
loan sharking.


PIRATES


Most pirates attack automated cargo ships and long-
range supply convoys, with the occasional raid on an
asteroid mining station, research outpost, or brinker
habitat. On rare occasions they have been known
to attack commercial cruisers to rob the wealthy or
kidnap socialites. Many pirates take advantage of
scum fleets as cover, trading with them and using their
limited maintenance capabilities. Quite a few also
make sideline profits as smugglers and/or free traders,
often utilizing connections to one of the crime syndi-
cates or political outcasts.


TRIADS


Major Stations: Qing Long (Martian Trojans)
The only major Earth syndicate to survive the Fall
almost unscathed, the triads dominate the solar sys-
tem’s underworld by their sheer membership size and
a history of centuries of economic and political influ-
ence. Having evolved into legit enterprises and small
economic consortiums already before the Fall, the
triads followed the masses of Chinese workers into
space, gaining a foothold during the early years of
colonization. After the Fall, they used their influence
to spread to numerous habitats, taking advantage of
the disparities in wealth and restrictive refugee poli-
cies to create flourishing gray and black market enter-
prises. Part of their success lies in their continued use
of ethnic Chinese social cues to ensure their insularity.
Though numerous small triad outfits exist, each
claiming a particular station or region, there are four


———
a
z=
imme

Ss
=
=





large triad groups worthy of mention. Each of these
wields enough influence to engage in system-wide
criminal activities. Traditionally they operate through
small to medium-sized gangs local to a specific habitat
or use their legal outfits as a font for their endeavours.

The 14K Triad controls a large part of the casino
industry and various forms of illegal gambling,
betting, and rigged lotteries. Through their Galaxy
Entertainment Group, a legal casino and gambling
hypercorp, the 14K maintains tight connections to
politicians, celebrities and influential entrepreneurs in
several habitats and can afford the luxury of a private
police force, the Pai Gow (Double Hand). Using the
casino business for money laundering, they are also
heavily involved in loan sharking and credit/ID fraud.

The Shui Fong—though smaller than the 14K—
caters to the vices and addictions of indentured
habitat workers, miners, and other laborers, supplying
drugs, narcoalgorithms, and illegal XP, running pros-
titution rings, and arranging pit fights and gambling
tournaments. The origin of the Shui Fong’s fierce
rivalry with the 14K lies in the ruins of Earth’s pre-
Fall history, but the hatred between the two factions
was carried into space and continues to simmer.

The Sun Yee On once ranked second among
Earth’s biggest triads, with over 25,000 suspected
members. They profit primarily by selling cheap
copies of nanofab blueprints and rigged makers
and fabbers. Legal products are distributed through
their Wushuang Corporation, while illegal goods are
patched together by enslaved infomorphs in virtual
sweatshops in remote corners of the mesh. The Sun
Yee On’s second main profit source are fake Earth
nostalgia items, such as jewelry, documents, coins,
and other collector’s items.

The Big Circle Gang is the smallest of the four
triad factions with approximately 8,000 members.
They run a large part of the solar system’s drug trade,
producing organic drugs, smart drugs, and narcoalgo-
rithms of all kinds in secluded habitats or abandoned
asteroid mining and processing facilities converted
into drug labs.


rIREWALL


Firewall has been on the forefront of the secret fight
to save transhumanity since the Fall. Firewall is an
independent network of cells and individuals recruited
from all sorts of factions, cultures, backgrounds, and
habitats. Potential new recruits are approached in
secret and told they possess skills or knowledge of use
to a clandestine network seeking to secure transhuman-
ity’s continued survival. Firewall’s agenda is simple: to
protect transhumanity from threats of existential scope,
regardless of whether such risks emerge from within
transhumanity or are of external, alien origin.
Firewall operatives—known as sentinels—are
encouraged to act independently and utilize their own
resources. Sentinels are connected by a social network
known as the Eye, which they can use to acquire help
and additional needed skills or resources. A sentinel’s








i-rep on this network indicates how much they are
trusted and will be a factor in determining what aid
they can call in. Firewall also takes care of large
expenses and logistics when necessary, such as ego-
casting and resleeving needs. Sentinels are guaranteed
resurrection, either via cortical stack or by backup, if
they lose their lives on a Firewall op.

Sentinels are generally expected to be on-call—when
something comes up in their vicinity or that their par-
ticular specialty might call for, they’ll be brought in on
a job. Sentinels are usually grouped into ad hoc special
ops teams appropriate to each mission. Though many


sentinels pursue their own agendas after completing a


mission for Firewall, it is not uncommon for sentinel
teams to remain in contact, share information or con-
tinue to work together on Firewall-related assignments
over a longer period of time.

Firewall operations are organized and managed by
proxies, agents who maintain Firewall’s decentral-
ized infrastructure. Proxies possess more informa-
tion than individual sentinels and will dispense such
information as they deem necessary to the mission,
according to each sentinel’s i-rep and need to know.





Each proxy’s means of contact, mission briefing, and
overall methodologies differ greatly.


PROMETHEANS


A prominent topic among conspiracy theorists is the
existence of a group of seed Als calling themselves
Prometheans. Rumors of these entities predated the
Fall and occasionally flare up as some new evidence
comes to light, though such evidence is almost always
discredited soon after. According to some theories,
the Prometheans predated the TITANs and may even
have been responsible for bringing the TITANs into
existence. Others postulate that the Prometheans were
a TITAN splinter faction that broke off and attempted
to counteract the TITANs activities during the Fall.
Still others whisper that the Prometheans are not of
transhuman origin at all and are actually a digital alien
mindform that found Earth and now actively interferes
with transhuman affairs. Whether the Prometheans
are hostile, friendly, or indifferent remains a matter of
much conjecture and contention. Prominent organi-
zations like the Planetary Consortium discount such
rumors or otherwise remain silent.


PROJECT OZIMA





[Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]
[Public Key Decryption Complete]
You won't find this group mentioned
on the conspiracy boards—Consortium
security is too tight to allow slip-ups.
If you haven't heard of Project Ozma
before, consider this your warning.
Project Ozma was the name of an
international collaborative SETI project
before the Fall. It briefly entered public
discourse after the Fall and the discovery
of the first Pandora gate as a Planetary
Consortium initiative to attempt to


discern the whereabouts of the TITANs
in the galaxy. Shortly afterwards,
however, Project Ozma dropped from
view, wiped from all public mention in
inner system mesh servers. Consortium
officials simply claim that the project
was folded into other departments.
Firewall doesn't know what Project
Ozma is, but we know they're still
around—and they seem to have similar
interests. We've butted heads a few
too many times for it be a coincidence.
Perhaps they're the Consortium’s version





of Firewall or maybe their agenda is
entirely different. I've heard some spec-
ulation that they're tasked for preparing
for and handling alien contact. All we
know is that they operate at the deep
black budget level and they have insane
amounts of resources at their beck and
call. They're also vicious as fuck, the
type to shoot first and question your
backup later. SOP if you run counter
to a Project Ozma op is to bail out fast
and stay hands off. We've lost dozens of
agents to them already. af


A TIME OF ECLIPSE

















=


SYSTEM GAZETEER


Transhumanity has extended out from its lost home-
world and colonized not only the solar system but
various exoplanets as well, thanks to the discovery
of the Pandora gates. This section provides an over-
view and incomplete sampling of transhumanity’s
settlements.


SOL (THE SUN)


The solar system was formed billions of years ago
through the accretion of material remaining from the
formation of its star, Sol, the sun. Locked ever since in
its orbit, the history and present disposition of virtu-
ally every object within two light years is shaped by
its relationship to this body. The sun is a bright G2
main sequence star, theoretically on the hot end of the
continuum of stars able to give rise to life. For most
of its history, transhumanity fueled its rises and falls
with the sun’s energy, first as stored in materials like
hydrocarbons, later directly with solar converters.
Today the sun remains a crucial source of energy,
but its outer reaches have also become home to some.
The adaptations required to dwell here make these
Solarians one of transhumanity’s most unusual offshoots.


SURYAS AND SALAMANDERS (CORONAL MORPHS)


Perhaps an example of transhumanity’s most extreme
neogenetic creations are the morphs adapted to live
in the sun’s corona. Suryas, named after a hindu sun
deity, are large, whale-like, and uniquely adapted to
dwell in the brilliant, superheated plasma cloud of the
sun’s outermost layer. Each surya is like a miniature
version of a circumsolar habitat. Their metabolisms
generate powerful magnetic fields that shield them
from the sun’s heat and radiation, while acting as
magnetic sails and scoops by which they sail on the
currents of the solar wind and extract elements carried
on it. Suryas are protected by layers of liquid water
“blubber” that capture harmful ions, which internal
medichines extract and eject, while maintaining useful
elements such as oxygen and hydrogen, from which
more water can be synthesized. They communicate
using patterns of dark and light coloration on their
exterior skins and are extremely sensitive to the helio-
seismic soundwaves that are the sun’s pulse, using
these vibrations to predict and avoid heavy weather
in the coronal atmosphere.

A second type of coronal morph is the salamander,
a tiny humanoid morph with gas jets on the back and
chest for maneuvering in vacuum. Salamanders have
very similar metabolisms to suryas, but are unable to
survive unprotected in the corona. They subsist on the
chemicals and energy extracted from the corona by
Ukko Jylina, the only habitat where they are found.

Both suryas and salamanders communicate either
via transmissions from their implants or by “sunspot-
ting”—shifting dark and light patterns on their skins
to form language.


0 1


HABITATS


Habitats in Sol’s corona face challenges more extreme
than those anywhere else in the system. Transhumanity’s
only means of shielding a habitat from the heat and
radiation emitted by a G2 star is to generate strong
electromagnetic fields. Even then, the dangers posed by
solar flares and coronal mass ejections—massive explo-
sions that jettison coronal material tens of thousands
of kilometers out into circumsolar space—mean that
the sun’s polar regions are the only safe space in which
to position habitats. As such, circumsolar habs require
extraordinary expense to build and maintain, and two
of the three major circumsolar stations are heavily
backed by distant organizations.

The outer layers of circumsolar habitats are covered
with thousands of electromagnetic dynamos drawing
power from the sun itself. These dynamos generate
the powerful fields necessary for shielding. Within
are intermediate layers filled with liquid water that
capture ionized particles, teeming with nanobots that
collect the ions and vent them into space. The water
must be regularly replaced from captured iceteroids
that are imported using heavy electromagnetic shield-
ing of their own. Within the water shield is a cluster
habitat, an array of modules on a framework follow-
ing a roughly spherical plan.


A QUICK PRIMER ON


TRANSHUMAN HABITATS


Habitats are covered in detail starting on p. 280.


A quick overview is provided here:


e Aerostats are massive cities floating in the upper cloud
layers of Venus.


e Clusters are microgravity habitats consisting of intercon-
nected modules.

¢ Cole bubble habitats are hollowed-out asteroids, ter-
raformed on the inside, and also spun for gravity.
Dome habitats are massive domes built on the surface of
moons, asteroids, or Mars.
Hamilton cylinders are self-building advanced nano-
tech habitats designs.

¢ O'Neill cylinder habitats are like huge soda cans over a
kilometer wide and several kilometers long. The interior is
terraformed and the entire cylinder is spun for gravity.
Reagan cylinders are an inefficient type of O'Neill
cylinder, built by hollowing a cylinder within a spinning
asteroid, and used in the Jovian Republic.

¢ Tin can habitats are small, cramped, cheap, modular
boxes, typically used in early space colonization.

¢ Torus habitats are big donuts or wheels, spun so that the


outer rim has gravity. The interior spokes are zerog.


e Beehives are tunnel warrens inside asteroids and moons.
¢ Bernal Spheres are artificial bubble worlds spun for gravity.



































UOT}E3S BUG, Butb






SNUFOYL
Nu Lub





uoT}e3S SssaJboud


a}e6 ue tzuew






re ea oe


‘“\. 10S


=a OY


‘SNUPOUL SNNLdSN
ene


hate








SNUFOYL
NUTLYBW


AYUNDHYSN






resAuv“hh) «=—,s§- OO)


uot}e3}5/etdou3xa ()





SNUrPOUL ANNLdAN


‘SNUFOUL NUINOP





ane
Mee i eas sh), @fECe AJeqty


HalIdnr





uot}e3s snooT ()


SNUPOUL NYLAOL.


173g yadA


as WAJSAS YU10S did





SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


\CTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





Coronal habitats are easily detectable at a great dis-
tance because of the bow shock preceding them and
the plasma tail left behind in the solar wind.


ATEN


Operated by a consortium including hypercorp
interests and the University of New Shanghai, Aten
supports a population of about 12,000 transhumans.
Rumors abound that military research is a major
component of this habitat’s mission. Aten is heavily
policed and difficult to visit. The most publicized dis-
coveries from this habitat involve propulsion systems
and new solar energy collection technologies.


HOOVERMAN-GEISCHECKER


The argonauts and Titan Autonomous University are
the major supporters of this habitat, which supports a
population of about 4,000. In contrast to Aten, access
to this habitat is relatively open. Major avenues of
research include pure science and research into
corona-adapted morphs.


UKKO JYLINA


Ukko Jylina is the name used by outsiders for the
suryas’ safe harbor. In the surya tongue, the name for
the place is a common sequence of helioseismic vibra-
tions. When transposed fifteen octaves upward into
the usual range of transhuman hearing, this sound is
a chaotic rumble to most ears, but the suryas consider
it one of the most beautiful sounds the sun makes.

Ukko Jylina is more of a camp than a hab, an area
of refuge for suryas during severe solar weather. It
also serves as a place for suryas to socialize and mate,
replenish water from imported iceteroids, and egocast
or resleeve. The population therefore fluctuates a
great deal, usually hovering around 300, but swelling
to 3,000 (nearly the entire surya population) during
heavy weather. Ukko Jylina also has a few modules in
which non-surya morphs can survive.

Very little of Ukko Jylina consists of enclosed hab
modules. Instead there are many utility modules with
their access ports open to space. Bereft of the solar
wind, suryas within the camp generally wear gas-expel-
ling maneuvering harnesses or resleeve in salamanders
if they need to do work requiring fine manipulation.


VULCANOIDS


The Vulcanoids are a population of asteroids that lie
between Mercury and the sun. Based on the predic-
tions of early 21*-century science, the number of
Vulcanoids is unexpectedly small.


V/2011-CALDWELL


Discovered in the early 21° century and subject to
a flyby by a Japanese solar research mission in the
2020s, V/2011-Caldwell was nothing but a line on
astronomers’ catalogs, notable only for the virtual lack
of cratering on the one side that was photographed.
Then, a few years after the dust settled from the Fall,


——
ra
z=
—

——=
———]
=
=





a small team of prospectors from Venus discovered
a Pandora gate. Now controlled by TerraGenesis,
Caldwell was used primarily for exoplanet research for
several years, though the hypercorp is now engaged
in several alien world terraforming and geoengineer-
ing projects. TerraGenesis regularly sells gate access
to other hypercorps and organizations. Caldwell is a
remarkably smooth, spindle-shaped asteroid about
four kilometers long and half a kilometer in diameter
at its widest point. Called the Vulcanoid Gate, it is
situated at the bottom of a deep crag near one of the
asteroid’s narrow poles.


MERCURY


The closest planet to the sun has a mass comparable
to Luna but is a great deal denser due to its iron-nickel
core. Mercury rotates slowly and has no atmosphere,
so that its day side is hot enough to melt most metals,
while its night side is bitterly cold. Because it lacks
many of the elements needed for transhuman colonies
to be self-sufficient, Mercury is sparsely inhabited,
save for a handful of solar power relays, a few under-
ground mining stations, and a single large surface
mining concern, Cannon.


RESOURCES AND ECONOMICS


Most of Mercury’s economy is based on mining.
Iron, nickel, and other metals make up 70% of the
planet’s mass, making it the richest source of ferrous
metals outside of the asteroids. Mercury also does a
brisk business in relaying solar power and serves as a
jumping-off point for solar research concerns unwill-
ing or unable to support stations in the solar corona.
Mercury has limited helium-3 deposits, although these
are predominantly mined for local use. It is an open
secret that several powers have antimatter production
stations here. Officially, these stations are massive
solar power relays, but the immense toroid particle
accelerators and large spherical magnetic containment
units required for antimatter production and storage
are nearly impossible to disguise.


CALORIS 18


The only known site of TITAN activity on Mercury
during the Fall, Caloris 18 was a sparsely crewed
solar power relay station belonging to Lukos, a
now-defunct Russian corporation. Vanya Ilyanovich,
the AGI administering the facility, rounded up all of
the station’s transhuman inhabitants and fused their
morphs into a gigantic, centipede-like abomination
before destroying itself in a failed attempt to merge
consciousnesses with all of the minds in its creation.
Since then, Caloris 18 has been under strict quarantine.


CANNON


Mercury’s largest surface settlement is a city-scaled
solar satellite-powered mobile mass driver that crawls
along the cool side of the planet, flinging apartment
building-sized ingots of extracted metal into space.





ais


The habitat is owned almost entirely by the hypercorp
Jaehon Offworld, which built Cannon with backing
from Lunar banks looking to diversify in anticipation
of a post-He3 Lunar economy. Most of the 10,000
inhabitants are Jachon employees, and security is tight.
Cannon makes a long loop of the heavily mined Caloris
basin during the long Mercurian night before following
a route that takes it around the planet’s northern hemi-
sphere, avoiding the blasting rays of the sun. Along the
way, it stops at a series of mining operations, collecting
the gigantic ingots for launch into orbit.


VENUS


Venus is Earth’s closest neighbor and the planet most
like it in terms of size and geology. It is a rugged world
of volcanic mountains, canyons, high plateaus, and
sweeping volcanic planes crisscrossed by river-like
magma channels. Much of the surface is basaltic rock.


The climate of Venus is one of the most inhospitable


in the solar system. Perhaps only the hideous radiation
of the inner Jovian moons presents a more difficult
challenge to transhuman colonization. The Venusian
atmosphere is a superheated maelstrom of carbon
dioxide and sulfuric acid, with an atmospheric pres-
sure at its surface equivalent to that five kilometers
below the surface of Earth’s oceans. Venus also lacks
more than trace amounts of hydrogen, meaning that
water must be imported in the form of iceteroids from
the outer system.





Nonetheless, transhumanity has come to Venus and,
with it, debate over how to make use of the planet.
Venus has no permanently inhabited surface settle-
ments other than a few mining camps and equipment
and supply caches used by planetside researchers.
Despite difficulties, transhumanity has found survival
strategies that work here. The most surprising of these
are the aerostats, lighter-than-carbon dioxide habitats
that float in the thick Venusian atmosphere. Aside
from a few independents or ones loyal to the Planetary
Consortium, these aerostats are the base of the new
Morningstar Constellation power bloc. Notable for
their research labs, nanofab design houses, software
studios, and luxury resorts, the Constellation’s
aerostats are increasingly at odds with Planetary
Consortium and Lunar-Lagrange Alliance interests.

On some aerostats, areas populated only by inden-
tured synthmorphs are open to the Venusian atmo-
sphere. Some 5,000,000 transhumans live in aerostat
habitats and another 10,000 on the surface. Roughly
350,000 transhumans live in habitats orbiting Venus.

Though the Planetary Consortium is consider-
ing the launch of a Venusian terraforming project,
this plan is actively opposed by the Morningstar
Constellation. The Constellation’s aerostats see the
terraforming proposals—which include massive com-
etary bombardment or building a planet-sized sun
shade to cool the atmosphere—as not only unwork-
able but disruptive to their lives and profits.





A TIME OF ECLIPSE







































SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS


7,


\CTIONS AND COMBAT


ig


MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A


Venus is a fascinating place for climatologists,
geologists, and other planetary scientists. The discov-
ery of Venusian protobacteria created a new branch
of life sciences overnight, though so far the practical
applications for organisms with such radically differ-
ent metabolisms from terrestrial life have been limited.


GERLACH


Gerlach is an O’Neill cylinder supporting about
120,000 transhumans. Generally recognized as the
research powerhouse of Venus, Gerlach is also one of
the strangest places in the inner system. The inhabit-
ants have strong ties to the argonauts, sympathies for
the outer-system autonomists, and are strong propo-
nents of morphological freedom, cognitive experimen-
tation, and open innovation. Gerlach’s main activities
are planetside research and exploration, hostile envi-
ronment morph design, and aerostat construction.


OCTAVIA


Octavia is the most successful aerostat habitat to
date and the political center of the Morningstar
Constellation. It maintains an altitude of roughly 55
kilometers above the northern highlands of Ishtar
Terra. Octavia resembles an immense, mushroom-
shaped skyscraper, 450 meters tall, ringed at its center
by four radial outrigger spars, each ending in a stabi-
lizing gas envelope filled with helium. The cap of the
mushroom is a hard, translucent dome that provides
an open, park like space while also serving as the main
gas envelope (oxygen, which is much lighter than the
CO2 making up most of Venus’s atmosphere, is the
main source of buoyancy). The habitat is fluted from


VENUSIAN RUMORS


[Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]

[Public Key Decryption Complete]

We need you to investigate some odd rumors
circulating about activity on the Venusian
surface. According to reports, an Omnicor
research team went missing about a week
ago. Unlike many Venus surface teams, these
weren't teleoperated bots but actual synth-
morph-sleeved researchers operating away
from the safety of an aerostat’s tether—which
is suspicious behavior itself. Search parties
have turned up no sign of the missing morphs,
but scuttlebutt says they ran into signs of
recent TITAN activity that have them freaked
out. | haven't found any evidence to back this
up, yet—it could just be some misinformation
to keep people from digging around that part
of the surface. I've heard that some security
corps have some quantum data caches buried
away down there. Looking into this may
require getting a hold of some heat- and
pressure-resistant synthetic morphs. ae


01 1A at





top to bottom, going from a diameter of almost 300
meters at the base of the dome, to 15 meters wide at
the very bottom. A huge counterweight tethered to the
bottom of the structure prevents the habitat from cap-
sizing during storms. Atmospheric craft and shuttles
from orbit may land at flight decks near the base of
the outriggers. 500,000 people live aboard Octavia.


APHRODITE PRIME


One of 20 smaller aerostats, Aphrodite Prime hovers
54 kilometers above Aphrodite Terra. It is a center for
Venusian tourism; fully a quarter of this aerostat is a
resort for wealthy offworld visitors. Aphrodite Prime
is also the primary research station for the design and
creation of life forms adapted to live in the Venusian
clouds. This aerostat has a population of 300,000 and
features closed-environment test aviaries populated
with clouds of air plankton and schools of recently
designed flying squid and balloon fish.


EARTH


Ecologically devastated and infested by the weird
spawn of the TITANs, transhumanity’s homeworld
doesn’t get many visitors. Earth’s once-populous
urban regions are massive sprawls ruined by war and
heavy weather, infested with dangerous artificial life
and the occasional survivalist gang. Elsewhere, irradi-
ated blast zones and desolate wasteland prevail. Due
to harsh climatic conditions, the wilderness has been
slow to reassert itself. Vast swaths of dead forest or
burned grassland are common sights.

Even from orbit, Earth shows deep scars. Breaks
in the sooty cloud cover created by orbital bombard-
ment during the Fall reveal continents ravaged by
coastal flooding, desertification, and radical tempera-
ture shifts. The only known detonation of an anti-
matter bomb within a planetary atmosphere, cen-
tered on what was the Chicago-waukee Metroplex
in North America, left a crater over 200 kilometers
wide wherein most matter was instantly vaporized.
Craters left by mass driver bombardment dot the
surface as well. Mass die-offs of lynchpin species
like honey bees and krill destroyed entire ecosys-
tems, leaving vast swathes of barren land and sea
inhabited by only the most adaptable species. Most
of Europe is sub-artic; much of Africa and North
America, desert. Ironically, transhumanity’s deploy-
ment of nuclear weapons against TITAN surface
installations arrested the effects of global warming
by creating a nuclear winter. Nuclear attacks against
Earth have ceased, but the Lunar mass drivers still
occasionally hurl captured asteroids at suspected
surface works created by remaining TITAN war
machines. In any case, the damage from humanity’s
warming of the globe was already done. The patterns
Olliicrom HartineanGuthe very acc ol tie plamct lave
been irrevocably rewritten.

Earth once had multiple space elevators in opera-
tion, but with exception of the Kilimanjaro beanstalk,














the others were destroyed during the Fall, wrapping
around the planet as they crashed to Earth, leaving
swathes of destruction.


POPULATION


Earth’s population is a matter of speculation. The
reclaimers and Lunar authorities, both of whom
spend a great deal of effort monitoring Earth, agree
that surface energy emissions suggest a population of
about one million once-humans living as servitors to
the TITANs, although these numbers assume patterns
of energy usage similar to those of pre-Fall humanity.

Though the Planetary Consortium claims that no
survivors remain on Earth, reclaimer estimates guess
that between 20,000 and 100,000 free transhumans
remain. These numbers are hard to formulate, given
the limited number of remote areas where trans-
humans could remain undetected while obtaining
enough food to subsist. Some areas likely to conceal
sizable remnant populations include the highlands of
Papua-New Guinea, the Ozark Mountains of North
America, and the jungle uplands of Vietnam and Laos,
though it is also possible that certain underground
and undersea settlements survive. Attempts to make
contact with survivors universally end in disaster.

During the Fall, thousands of people unable to
escape Earth resorted to having themselves backed
up and transmitted off-planet. Many of these—along
with some who had no backups—also put their bodies
in cryogenic storage, hoping to wait out the Fall for
rescue. Some reclaimers have speculated that dozens
of these cryogenic facilities may still be functional.


HABITATS


Earth had a mature orbital industry sector and a con-
siderable population in orbit at the time of the Fall,
with over a billion people living full-time in space.
Earth orbit was one of the fiercest battlegrounds of
the Fall, however, and hundreds of habitats and other
installations were destroyed or rendered unusable. As
such, Earth orbit and the Lagrange points are littered
with the detritus of pre-Fall humanity. Derelict habi-
tats can mean tidy profits for intrepid scavengers, but
many are also infested with TITAN spawn and hostile
nanoswarms, making them incredibly dangerous.

To make matters worse, someone or something has
unleashed a large number of autonomous killsats in
Earth orbit to interdict would-be visitors. Some of
these are repurposed pre-Fall military hardware, while
others are newer constructions. So far, no one claims
responsibility for them. The Planetary Consortium
is suspected, as they support and sometimes enforce
a quarantine of the planet, but the possibility exists
that the killsats may be TITAN relics or the efforts of
another agency.

Despite the chaos of Earth orbit, numerous habi-
tats remain active here, many of them participants in
either the Planetary Consortium or Lunar-Lagrange
Alliance. Dozens of formerly derelict habitats have








7” EY A We ——“‘“sisS


also become home to squatters, some of them with
criminal intent, others just looking to escape the
squalor of life in the overcrowded Lunar-Lagrange
habitats, even if it means taking a risk.


FRESH hILLS


Essentially an armed-to-the-incisors scum barge,
Fresh Kills is a salvage base near the edge of the
Earth-Luna LS point. The base is built around a
huge central docking spindle with moorings for
small craft and habitat modules in the center and
massive weapons batteries at either tip. Scavengers
can moor their own craft or, at considerable expense,
egocast in, resleeve at the facility, and hire shuttles
for excursions. The gun batteries are articulated such
that any craft showing signs of trouble can be hastily
jettisoned and destroyed. 2,000 transhumans live on
Fresh Kills, although the population is transient and
fluctuates a good deal.


PARADISE


Situated in a halo orbit at the Earth-Sun L1 point,
Paradise was an exclusive spa and resort station
for the ultra-rich before the Fall. In the wake of the
Fall, Paradise fell on hard times, swarmed as it was
with refugees and no longer an ideal vacation spot.
Recently, however, Paradise fell back in favor with the
inner system glitterati, who undertook measures to
expel many of the lingering squatters and refurnish
it as an elite social space. Recent rumors suggest the
Consortium’s Hypercorp Council use Paradise for
important face-to-face meetings.


VO NGUYEN


The reclaimers maintain this station in high geosta-
tionary orbit, monitoring Earth and making plans
for potential geoengineering efforts. Vo Nguyen is a
small O’Neill cylinder hidden in a dangerous cloud of
space junk and protected by swarms of killsats, gun
emplacements, and drones. It is occasionally used as a
jumping-off point for secret surface expeditions.


LUMA


The first planetary body to host permanent human
habitation, Earth’s sole moon competes with Titan
for the second largest population on a planetary body
in the solar system and remains a lynchpin of culture
and economic activity. Lunar history has been shaped
dramatically by the Fall. Before the need to evacuate
Earth arose, it was expected that Luna would remain
largely an automated mining concern, never attain-
ing a population of more than a few million. Luna
was never seen as an economically viable location for
colonization, the focus instead falling on Mars and
the outer system.

When the Fall came, every polity that couldn’t
hope for a shot at Mars or elsewhere set its sights
on Luna. The Indians were the only great power
that had invested heavily in Luna. The other three


Z.5:5,3. ?
(>
y


3.3"
er
A


p


‘Y
Y





-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a




































WELCOME TO FIREWALL


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SYNOPSIS


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


SKILLS


Mh,
™.


\CTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A


Ti


major settlements, Erato, Nectar, and Shackle, were
multinational and hypercorp concerns with no strong
national affiliations. These three cities swelled over-
night into polyglot refugee camps, while the Indian
settlement, New Mumbai, was nuked black by the
corps when it became apparent that a TITAN infec-
tion had taken hold there.

Bereft of nationhood, Lunars developed their own
resourceful, tough-minded culture that emerged as a
counterbalance to the radicalism of the outer system
and the excesses of Mars.

Transportation on Luna is largely by suborbital
rocket, although trans-sonic bullet trains also operate
along shorter routes. The major space port is at
Nectar. There is also a skyhook—a massive orbiting
satellite spaceport that drags a massive tether, which
acts as a space elevator along a track running across
the Lunar surface south of the equator. As a result,
many smaller cities lie along the skyhook track.


FASHION/DESIGN


Nectar is one of the three fashion/design capitals of
the system (along with Noctis on Mars and Extropia).
The Lunar design houses have two major advantages:
an inventive population and a low planetary gravity
that makes it easier to design for the low gravities
that prevail in much of the system. Some habitats else-
where in the system even choose a rotational speed
that simulates Lunar gravity in order to get the great-
est benefit from Lunar designs.


TILTON S JUPITER BRAIN


[Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]

[Public Key Decryption Complete]

Our investigation into codename: TILION’s
Lunar research activities has confirmed our
Suspicions. The hypercorp is engaged in experi-
ments to convert confined spherical masses in
the Lunar interior into testbed micro-Jupiter
brains. The silicate-rich Lunar crust makes
the locations they have chosen ideal for the
project. Though we have not verified it, we
believe that TILION not only followed the trail
of TITAN research into this area, but is in fact
in possession of a small cache of TITAN-made
computronium. There is no saying what the
TITANS may have been using this cache for,
what it may store, or what may occur if TILION
completes the project and brings the micro-
Jupiter brain online. Fortunately, time seems to
be on our side, and we have several weeks if
not months before any significant part of the
project is activated. We will continue to infil-
trate and learn more, but we strongly suggest
an erasure squad be moved into position and
placed on standby. ae


TM


||





HELIUM-3 MINING


Although it’s not the richest place to mine He-3, Luna
has such good infrastructure for extraction and dis-
tribution that it more than makes up for the fact that
Luna is very poor in hydrogen for more conventional
forms of fusion. Unlike the vast reserves of the gas
giants, however, the amount of readily extractable
He-3 in the Lunar regolith is finite. Some of the
richer deposits are already tapped out, and concerned
Lunars consider their world’s future after these depos-
its are exhausted a major issue.


FINANCE


The Lunar banks are the oldest (and thus richest) in
the system, though hypercorps like Solaris are close
on their heels. Interestingly, the rise of the reputation
economy in the outer system has not presented as
much of a problem for these banks as one might have
expected. Lunar banks got hip to the reputation game
long before the Martian financial institutions and
moved in to capitalize on it immediately. By the time
Martian banks knew what was going on, Lunar finan-
cial institutions had struck deals with the Extropians
and dominated all of the points of exchange where
favors could be bartered for cold, hard cash between
inner system corp types and outer system anarchists.
The same genius fueling Lunar design created a
complex barter-to-cash network that almost everyone
uses. While some autonomists find it infuriating that
they have to deal with a monolithic banking system
to get by in the inner system, others are simply happy
to deal with the Lunars instead of the Martians for
this service.


ERATO (ERATOSTHENES)


Erato (population 5 million) is a major mining center
consisting of a series of heavily shielded surface domes
and a vast underground city. Erato is centered around
the Eratosthenes crater on the southern edge of the
Mare Imbrium (Sea of Showers), in the northern
hemisphere of the Earth-facing side of Luna. Erato has
access to both the rich titanium deposits of the Mare
Imbrium and fields of helium 3-abundant regolith.

Erato is one of the oldest mining settlements on
Luna and one of the first to become commercially
viable. As such, many of the Lunar banks are cen-
tered around this city. The vaulted heights of the
Great Cavern of Erato, originally excavated by a
Sino-European conglomerate, reach a height of 1.5
kilometers at the apex, leaving room for a teeming
city of gardens and towers grown from Lunar silicates
and industrious nanobots, lit from above by sunlight
entering via great mirrored vents.


NECTAR (ECTARIS)


Nectar (population 9 million) lies about 100 kilo-
meters due east of Theophilus crater on the Mare
Nectaris (Sea of Nectar) in Luna’s southern hemi-
sphere. Nectar is a design powerhouse, home to the
great Lunar design houses that set fashion and design








trends for much of the solar system. Due to its loca- Atiglicl teal GUSebehii—p i GOyert atts tattle tice eC


tion relatively close to the Lunar equator, Nectar also centuries to produce a fully breathable atmosphe x ————————7_7











hosts Luna’s primary long-haul space port and is on
the pickup path for the Lunar skyhook.


MEW MUMBA CONTAINMENT ZONE


The incineration of the New Mumbai colony with
nuclear weapons during the Fall to prevent the spread
of TITAN infection left a scorch mark roughly 100
kilometers in diameter on the face of Luna that is
still visible from high orbit. The colony was a heavily
automated helium-3 mining station, located in the
midst of rich helium-3 fields on the edge of the Mare
Moscoviens. It remains a heavily patrolled quarantine
zone to this day.


SHACKLE (SHACKLETON-NEW VARANASI)


Shackle (population 6 million), built in and around
the south polar Shackleton crater, is centered on one
of two major water extraction operations on Luna.
New Varanasi, the city of temples, is the most impres-
sive section of the city. Shackle was the other major
site of old Indian influence on Luna, and with the
destruction of New Mumbai holds special importance
to descendants of the Indian diaspora. New Varanasi
is a monumental artificial cavern complex with an
intricate canal system fed by melted ice from the polar
caps above. As a source of lifegiving water, it now
holds the same importance to the hindu faith once
ascribed to the River Ganges on old Earth. Survivors
of other Indian religions, such as the jains and sikhs,
have also made their temples here. This makes Shackle
a major pilgrimage site; tourism is the major indus-
try after water extraction. A small herd of Indian
elephants is a major attraction, and the elephant god
Ganesha, Remover of Obstacles, is extremely popular
on Luna, even with non-hindus.


MARS


Earth was the cradle of transhuman civilization, but
Mars, with a population of 200 million, is now its
heartland. When humanity began its spaceward dias-
pora, Luna was its first stop. Yet while Luna boasts a
sizable population, Mars was the first world humans
settled where they could thrive entirely on locally
available resources. During the first few decades,
the early Martian settlers dwelt in tin can hab units,
extracting methane from the local atmosphere for
rocket fuel and water from the Martian permafrost,
farming in inflatable greenhouses, and eventually
manufacturing enough greenhouse gases to warm the
planetary climate to the point where transhumans
could walk the Martian surface unprotected, save for
oxygen respirators.

The second phase of the great project of terrafor-
ming Mars—husbanding plant life and microbes
engineered to rapidly replace atmospheric carbon
dioxide with oxygen—was already underway at the
time of the Fall. A belt of orbital mirrors helps to heat
the planet by focusing the sun’s rays. The spread of


i” EY) A We —“‘“OsOS





but the nigh-immortal transhumans of Mars are pre-
pared to be patient. A new homeworld is worth the
wait. Research into new plants and micro-organisms
capable of releasing oxygen and nitrogen into the
Martian atmosphere at an ever-accelerating pace is a
major focus of economic activity.

In the meantime, the red planet is a place of star-
tling contrasts, from the stark beauty of its mountain
ranges and high desert to the slowly greening bot-
tomlands of the equatorial Valles Marineris canyon
system. In these bottomlands, oxygen levels are
slowly rising, and liquid water can now be found in
canals that had already been dry for millions of years
when transhumanity’s ancestors came down from
the trees. Mars is a popular destination for travel-
ers from around the system. Many Martians accrue
wealth by operating lavish hotels, offering tours of
historical sites, and leading wilderness expeditions to
the rugged highlands and vast deserts of the untamed
Martian frontier.

Mars now sports five vast, domed cities, mostly in
the equatorial regions, along with numerous smaller
settlements. Settlements are connected by surface
roads, a network of near-sonic maglev trains, and
air/spaceports from which suborbitals, airships, and
near space rockets fly on regular schedules. Thanks
to the abundance of methane fuel and gravity only
one-third of Earth’s, transhumans on Mars finally got
their flying cars as well, and all settlements have well-
delineated rights-of-way for these vehicles. Meanwhile,
in the wild uplands, planetologists and terraforming
engineers dwell in small villages, living the simple life
in ruster morphs while seeing to the continued devel-
opment of the Martian climate and atmosphere.

As a partially terraformed planet with vast tracts
of unused land, Mars is one of the few places that
can offer new sleeves to infomorph refugees. Martian
brokerage houses do a brisk business in the purchase
and resale of infugee contract labor, with agreements
(for some) leading to eventual sleeving. This has led to
a sizable Martian underclass, however, organized as a
growing resistance movement under the Barsoomian
banner (though the hyperelite socialites disparagingly
call them “rednecks”).


REGIONS


Mars is broadly divided between the lowlands of the
north and the highlands of the south, which in many
places are separated by dramatic cliffs up to two kilo-
meters high. Mars has seasons just as Earth, and both
north and south poles have permanent ice caps that
persist despite transhumanity’s success in warming the
planet. Both regions present obstacles to terraforming.
The northern plains are open and windswept, while
the rugged southern uplands remain a difficult terrain
for life to gain a foothold. Even so, tough Earth
species like cacti and succulents are able to grow in
the best spots.


3.5.5.3. ?
(>
y


3.3"
a"
A


p


‘Y
Y





-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a





SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
\CTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A


Ma’adim Vallis: This deep canyon system on Mars
holds one of the Planetary Consortium’s most treasured
possessions: the Martian Gate. This Pandora gate
was originally discovered by nomadic Barsoomians,
then violently wrested from their hands by hypercorp
troops—an event that still rankles the rednecks. As
different hypercorps themselves nearly came to blows,
the Hypercorp Council was forced to step in and offer
a resolution that all could agree to. A new hypercorp
was founded—Pathfinder—which would control
exploration and exploitation of the gate and resources
beyond, with special privileges and rights given to
Planetary Consortium members. The Martian Gate is
now a staging point for numerous exoplanet colonies,
though some fear the prospect of keeping a presumed-


TITAN artifact operational on transhumanity’s most


populous planet.

Olympus Mons: Mars’s most notable landmark is
the mighty shield volcano Olympus Mons, on which
the first—and still principle—Martian space elevator
was constructed. Similar in shape and origin to Earth’s
Hawaiian Islands, but now dormant, Olympus Mons
is one of the highest mountains in the solar system,
rising 27 kilometers.

Olympus, the settlement in the volcano’s caldera
around the base of the space elevator, was once the
chief city of Mars, but waned in popularity as a place
to live when terraforming made other regions more
attractive. A maglev train from Olympus takes a little
over three hours to reach Noctis; air travel is even
quicker. Despite the waning of the city, the space
elevator still sees heavy use.

Valles Marineris: Most of transhumanity’s ter-
raforming efforts center around the winding Valles
Marineris canyonlands, which twist and turn over
4,000 kilometers east-to-west along the Martian
equator. In these relatively warm bottomlands, liquid
water is becoming abundant and the land is green
with hardy plant species like crab grass, dandelions,
and towering Douglas firs (which botanists estimate


may reach heights of 180 meters in the low Martian
gravity). 75% of the transhuman population of Mars
lives in this region, giving it the highest density of
transhuman habitation in the solar system.

The Zone: Officially labeled the TITAN Quarantine
Zone, the TQZ is a large area stretching from the
smooth plains of Amazonis Planitia (between the
Tharsis and Elysium volcanic areas) and southeast to
Arsia Mons (just west of Noctis). This zone is known
to be crawling with leftover TITAN machinery:
warbots, nanoswarms, and other dangerous things.
Several devastated habitats lie in this region, includ-
ing the former Islamic stronghold of Qurain. Few
dare venture here, though some rumors suggest that
Barsoomian smugglers make use of the Arsia Mons
caves and even scavenge for TITAN tech, despite the
risks. Planetary Consortium drones keep a vigilant eye
on the Zone’s borders, though for unknown reasons
the TITAN relics rarely stray beyond its bounds.


HOHOA


Ashoka is located in a crater in the Ares Vallis region
about 3,000 kilometers northeast of Valles-New
Shanghai, not far from the landing sites of the early
Viking and Pathfinder probes. The town is a popular
spa and spiritual retreat for Martians wanting to
revisit their pioneer roots. It is also an active terra-
forming station and a major point of contact between
the semi-nomadic Barsoomian culture of the high
desert and the settled Martians of the equatorial
canyonlands. 10,000 scientists, historians, terraform-
ing workers, and spiritual gurus live in the town and
surrounding area. A major attraction is a museum
housing the Pathfinder lander and the Sojourner rover
(which was still operational when humans landed and
discovered it circling endlessly in a crater). The Viking
lander is in another museum a short monorail ride
from town. In a move that infuriated historical purists,
all three machines were given modern hardware
upgrades when discovered and now house Als who








=Weses act as historians of early Mars exploration. Sojourner Image is everything here, and-to-visitors1t-may-SCCI) — Sauna


“== js particularly friendly and sometimes leads lucky








as if everyone in this city is either blindingly bean) ————————<<<











—=——
——=
—
| ns
aecat|
—oa
aac


groups on walking tours of early landing sites. or calculatedly ugly. The most successful performers


ELY SIUM


Located in the Elysium and Hyblaeus Chasma in



































and entertainment tycoons live lives of glittering








privilege that would make the richest gerontocrat in
New Shanghai mildly envious. Everyone else, from
the north of the Hesperia region in Mars’s eastern up-and-coming game producers to virtual ero per-


formers, has to hustle constantly.


MOCTIS-OUANJIAD


With a population of 13 million, Noctis-Qianjiao is the


hemisphere, Elysium is the entertainment capital of






the system and the largest Martian city outside of



























the canyonlands of the equator. It is also the most



















physically remote of the large Martian cities, though
transhumanity’s advanced transportation technology major metroplex in the west of the Valles Marineris
(suborbital flights and rocket flight from habitats


above) make this remoteness a trivial quality.


region, an area known as Noctis Labyrinthus.
Although not as hospitable as the Eos region in which
Elysium and Hyblaeus Chasma together make up Valles-New Shanghai lies, Noctis Labyrinthus is con-
a 250-kilometer long canyon system in the shadow sidered prime real estate for its gorgeous scenery and
of Elysium Mons, a 14-kilometer mountain located well-developed river systems. The metroplex boasts
about 200 kilometers northeast of the city. In between two major domes: Qianjiao, on the northern bank of
is the Zephyrus Fossae, an undulating, windswept the River Noctis, and Noctis City (normally just called
lava plain. The city was the vision of one person, “Noctis”) to the south. Connecting the two domes and
Zev1 Oaxaca-Maartens, an eccentric entertainment spanning the river is a sprawling network of lesser
magnate who was intrigued by the close proximity of domes and souks, although these have been pushed
the eminently terraformable Chasma to the unspoiled north and south over the years as the planet warms
Hesperian terrain. and the river grows wider.
The city is only 30 years old but already boasts Noctis-Qianjiao is the center of the Martian
a population of 9 million transhumans. Elysium is design and fashion industries, which in the abundant
mostly built into the canyon walls of the Chasma, Martian economy arguably makes the city as impor-
sprawling over a 75-kilometer stretch, all of which tant as the much-larger Valles-New Shanghai. This
has been domed over. Unlike the big domed metro- settlement’s proximity to the Zone sometimes alarms
plexes of the south, Elysium takes advantage of the visitors, but there have been no public incidents to


cause concern so far.


OLYMPUS


Olympus, with a population of 1 million living


canyon walls, which are close enough together that














rather than building free standing domes, the builders

















have simply built great enclosing arches to completely
cover the canyon. These expand northward year by
year as the city grows. From low orbit, it looks like a in a space designed to accommodate 6 million, is
great, glistening serpent. something of a ghost town. The former principal
The Martian city of Elysium is the spiritual succes- city, built in the caldera of Olympus Mons around
sor to old Earth’s Los Angeles as the entertainment the space elevator, is now fallen into disuse. As the
capital of the solar system. Glamorous stars and temperatures rose and the climate improved in the
blood-drinking producers coupled with a healthy Valles Marineris canyonlands, most of the popula-


dose of outrageous (if often vapid) transhuman tion left the windswept caldera for more hospitable


<<


creativity have made Mars an unrivaled media pow- surroundings. Olympus is not and never was a large


erhouse. Elysium may boast more exalt and sylph domed city, consisting instead of a souk-like network


morphs per capita than any other transhuman city. of minor domes and antiquated tin can hab modules.


MARTIAN MANHUNT


[Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous] A week ago, a nomad known as __ back. The ego hunter showed up in Zim
[Public Key Decryption Complete] Hassan Naceri rolled in. He's a regular, and Naceri lost it. He killed the ego
Those deaths you asked me to look —_ word is that he runs a lone courier service = hunter and everyone else in the room.
into? It's looking worse than we feared. _ for the Barsoomians. On this recent visit, We found a spime’s sensor records

| took a buggy car out to the Zim —_ though, his behavior was off. He was _ that show Naceri transforming. He also
settlement. It’s just a collection of nervous and agitated. He told one drink- _ killed half a dozen people simply by


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


tin can modules, supporting a small ing buddy that he'd been forced to hide _ looking at them.

terraforming ecostation and facilities | out in the Zone for a few days and the That's right. This bugger’s infected.
for nomadic rednecks. On average, — experience had put him on edge. The Martian Rangers are hot on his
it's home to 150, if you count the 20 Turns out Naceri had run off with a __ trail, but they don’t know what they're
or so pleasure pod Als that serve as — ruster morph without working out his dealing with. So we're off to try and
local “entertainment.” full indenture to Fa Jing a few years catch him—it—first. Wish us luck. %%





SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


\CTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





Low atmospheric pressure and bone-freezing temper-
atures at the city’s altitude of 27 kilometers mean that
most transhumans venturing outside the souks and
hab modules still need the equivalent of light vacsuits
to survive. Martian Alpiners, a rare morph found in
few other places, are not uncommon here due to the
harsh conditions.

The city center is well maintained and carefully
overseen by the Olympus Infrastructure Authority,
a minor hypercorp that operates the space eleva-
tor. The outskirts are economically depressed and
sometimes dangerous, mostly deserted and popu-
lated by squatters, indentured downloads on the
run, and other people who really want to be left
alone. Occasional outbreaks of dangerously mutated
artificial life are one of the few reasons for which
the Authority bothers to intervene in the outskirts.
Otherwise, the old tin can habs and their strange
inhabitants are left to decay.


PROGRESS (DEMOS)


Progress is one of the largest Cole bubbles in the
Solar System. With 8.5 million residents, it is second
in population only to Extropia in the belt. Progress
was created when Fa Jing evicted all of the former
residents from the Martian satellite of Deimos, exca-
vated the inside of the moonlet, and used a massive
solar array to convert it into a bubbleworld. From an
engineering standpoint, Progress is a wonder. It was
the first successful use of new methods to create a
Cole habitat after several previous attempts to create
bubbleworlds resulted in the asteroid or moonlet
breaking apart.

Progress is nonetheless an impressive habitat, home
to hypercorp glitterati and an outpost for a host of
major political and economic concerns. Its sister
moon, Phobos, remains a warren-like tunnel habitat
due to the presence of multiple legal interests unable
to agree upon the disposal of the satellite.


VALLES-NEW SHANGHAL


The principal city of Mars, Valles-New Shanghai is
transhumanity’s largest planetary metroplex, with 37
million inhabitants. Valles-New Shanghai lies in the
heavily terraformed Eos region in the east of the Valles
Marineris canyon system. The metroplex is comprised
of five major domes connected by a network of
Martian souks. The souks are a unique architectural
feature of large Martian cities, consisting of covered
thoroughfares and galleries lined with bazaars, eater-
ies, and squats. It is said one can find anything if one
spends enough time walking the souks.

The domes themselves are tamer, with artificial
waterways (many of which now connect to the
tenuous rivers etching the surface of the Eosian
bottomland), grand architecture, residential mini-
arcologies, entertainment complexes, and hypercorp
conference centers. The most impressive by far is the
Bund, the larger and older of two domes making up
the city of New Shanghai proper. New Shanghai is


———
cr
[ol
—

——=
——————|
=<
=





roughly bisected by the twisting Ares, an artifical river
that helps regulate the dome’s climate. Near its center
is an almost brick-for-brick duplicate of the original
Bund from the destroyed Earth city of Shanghai.

The other four domes are Little Shanghai (a newer,
smaller dome adjacent to the Bund), Valles Center
(a business and financial center that rivals the Lunar
banks of Erato and Nectar), New Pittsburgh (also
called the Burgh, a hub of research and planet-side
industry), and Nytrondheim (housing major entertain-
ment districts).

Valles-New Shanghai is transhumanity’s wealthiest
population center, a hotbed of art and culture, and
one of the system’s great centers of hypercorp activity.
The populace includes an extremely high percent-
age of gerontocrats, but their stifling influence on
culture, economic mobility, and the legal system is
only one force among many in a city of 37 million
people. The city has expanded so much to accom-
modate its exploding population since the Fall that
new construction is a constant. Crime and corruption
are widespread, though the worst of it is contained
to Little Shanghai. Valles is a place where dreams are
made and broken every day, if not every hour.


MARTIAN TROJANS


Not to be confused with the much larger Jovian
Trojans, the Martian Trojans are a small group of
mostly rocky asteroids trailing and preceding Mars at
its L4 and LS points.


DING LONG (AZURE DRAGON)


Qing Long, with a population of 2 million, is the
largest O’Neill habitat in the system. It is situated
among the Trojans at the Martian L5 point. Qing
Long has its roots in the Chinese effort to colonize
Mars. Despite its exceptional size, it is one of the
oldest habitats of its type, having been built almost
entirely from metal-rich asteroids mined near its
present location.

Qing Long is a major underworld haven. The habi-
tat’s administration is beholden to several criminal
organizations who normally refrain from killing one
another. The habitat nominally obeys some hyper-
corp principles, such as limited access to cornucopia
machines, forking, and AGIs. However, thriving grey
and black markets enable people with the right con-
nections to acquire just about anything here.


HOTEROID BELT


Spread out over a massive region between the orbits
of Mars and Jupiter, the Main Belt contains a few
hundred asteroids greater than 100 kilometers in
diameter, over a thousand objects greater than 30 kilo-
meters in size, and countless smaller ones. Despite this,
the total mass of asteroids in the belt is only a fraction
of one of the inner planets, meaning that asteroids are
spread out over great distances. A spacecraft flying
through the belt is highly unlikely to encounter an
asteroid unless it deliberately navigates toward it.








NOVA YORK (METIS)


One of the more unusual near-weightless habia  ————————————————<<2


RESOURCES AND ECONOMICS


The rich, easily accessible mineral deposits in the


Belt were a major link in transhumanity’s first steps
toward the outer system. Automated mining and
high-impulse ion boosters enabled outer system
colonists to move metal-rich Main Belt asteroids
into the orbits of Jupiter, Saturn, and beyond, where
metallic asteroids are much scarcer. This activ-
ity continues to this day as transhumanity pushes
further out into the system.


HABITATS


Hundreds of small habitats, mostly involved in pros-
pecting activities, dot the belt. Distant from Earth,
settlements in the belt were largely spared the devas-
tation of the Fall. Both hypercorp and autonomous
outposts flourish here. Derelict habitats abandoned
when nearby asteroids were boosted into the outer
system or depleted are common here as well, though
some of these are now occupied by residents who are
best left to their solitude.


CERES

One of the system’s dwarf planets (along with the
likes of Pluto and Eris), Ceres is almost 1,000 kilo-
meters in diameter and hosts a population of almost a
million. Unlike most Main Belt asteroids, Ceres has an
icy crust with a layer of liquid water beneath it, like
a miniature version of Jupiter’s moon, Europa. With
its abundant water, Ceres has a major role in resup-
plying other stations in the belt. Similar to Extropia,
Ceres operates largely along anarcho-capitalist lines.
However, the Hidden Concern, a cartel run entirely
by uplifted octopi, holds sway in the sub-crustal sea
and maintains a stranglehold, as it were, on water
extraction operations. Cerean octopoid morphs are
specially adapted to survive in the ammonia-rich
waters of the Hidden Sea.


EMTROPIA (22 NYSA)


This massive beehive habitat is a major crossroads
and anarcho-capitalist/mutualist marketplace.
Extropia is a neutral free city whose infrastructure
and social fabric is maintained by a loose associa-
tion of anarcho-syndicalist affinity groups. Extropia’s
neutrality hinges on strategic alliances between key
local figures, their networks, and an unusual array
of outside interests that include the Lunar banks,
technolibertarian factions, and outer system colonies
dependent upon raw materials exported from the
belt. The hypercorps use Extropia as a tax shelter and
a haven from which to do illicit business. There are
no laws or government as such; visitors are advised
to register with an insurance and security provider.
Named after one of the first transhumanist move-
ments, Extropia is considered a utopia for trans-
humans looking for body modifications. AGIs and
forking are accepted and allowed here. The transhu-
man population is nearly ten million.


Nova York, the main city on Metis, a large nickel-iron
and silicate asteroid located in the main belt. Nova
York, the third largest habitat in the main belt, is a
thriving metropolis of 500,000, with the main portion
of the city located in a spherical cavern approximately
four kilometers in diameter, the top of which is two
hundred meters beneath the asteroid’s surface. Lit
during the day by a series of huge light tubes in the
outer walls, at night the lights of the buildings cause
the surface of this sphere to resemble an enormous
geode. The habitat’s basic design consists of many
thousands of exceptionally tall and fragile-looking
buildings that extend between one hundred and fifteen
hundred meters above the surface, as well as a few
buildings that stretch from one side of the cavern to
the other. In Metis’s minute gravity of 1/140" of a g,
up and down have little meaning, and even relatively
fragile buildings are in no danger of falling down. The
vast majority of the buildings, including ones more
than one kilometer tall, are made from thin plastic
panels over a durable supporting framework. These
buildings jut out at all angles from the sphere.

Many inhabitants of Nova York move from one
building to another by jumping, and a single leap can
carry someone many hundreds of meters. Residents
do not worry about falling—the combination of air
resistance and exceedingly low gravity means that
even someone falling from the top of the cavern to
the bottom is in no danger of injury. In this environ-
ment, the only real meaning of up and down is that
down is where you look for objects to come to rest
(as long as an air current does not pick them up and
blow them around).


JUPITER


Large enough that it could almost have formed the
nucleus of a protostar in its own right, Jupiter’s
massive size makes the Jovian system one of the most
challenging places in the system to colonize. Jupiter’s
powerful magnetic field means that its inner moons—
and the outer ones, when their orbits pass through its
immense magnetotail—are bombarded with enough
ionizing radiation to kill transhumans not protected
by the heaviest of shielding within a matter of hours.
There are sixty-three moons and moonlets in the
Jovian system, but only the well-explored, populous,
regular moons are described here.


RESOURCES AND ECONOMY


Jupiter’s powerful gravity well is a major hindrance to
gas mining in the planet’s atmosphere, as even craft
that do not succumb to the violent, centuries-long
atmospheric storms can only achieve escape velocity
with the most powerful propulsion systems. Given the
need for heavy shielding on such craft, gas mining on
Jupiter is not nearly as efficient as on Saturn. Jupiter
has a tenuous ring system, much less dense than


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


w
wy
Y


3.5.5.3. 2





37


\





rm,


p


Saturn’s, which extends out for 20,000 kilometers
around the planet, encompassing the orbits of its two
closest moonlets.

Jupiter’s gravity, however, is also a valuable
resource. Craft bound for Saturn and beyond can
slingshot themselves outward by circling the planet
to pick up velocity, cutting months or years off their
trips. The heavily militarized Jovian Republic levies
tolls against all spacecraft using Jupiter’s gravity to
pick up velocity, including asteroids under propulsion.
This protection money is the Junta’s primary source of
revenue. Planetary Consortium ships generally accept
the payment as part of operating expenses. Other fac-
tions are not so cooperative, and the Junta regularly
seizes or destroys blockade runners.


HABITATS AND MOONLETS


Most of Jupiter’s moons are really captured asteroids,
lacking the size and geological complexity of plan-
etary bodies. All are occupied. Some were converted
to habitats; others host only Junta military and mining
outposts. The Jovian moonlets consist mostly of car-
bonaceous rock, poor in metal, with some of the larger
moonlets having layers or even cores of ice. Beehive
habitats and Reagan cylinders predominate in the
Jovian system. Reagan cylinders (called “sarcophagus
habs” by other factions) are an inefficient variation on
the O’Neill cylinder in which excavators hollow out
an immense, cylindrical cavern in a rocky asteroid and
then alter the asteroid’s rotation with external thrust-
ers to simulate gravity.

Other habitat types are urarcy imme povdanion ile
especially within 2 million kilometers of the planet,
where the radiation is strongest. For a bioconserva-
tive faction unwilling to adopt radiation-resistant
morphs, the Junta is in a poor location. Shielding their
populace beneath tons of rock is a necessity. Despite
its military hegemony, the Junta can’t control all of


Jovian space, and there are things it can’t do on its


own—like exploring Europa. A number of unaligned
habitats and surface settlements exist in the ring
system and the orbits of the Galilean moons.

The Jovian Republic has renamed Jupiter’s moons
after various neo-conservative heroes from Earth’s
history. From closest to most distant, the moonlets are
Metis (Bush), Adrastea (Fairway), Amalthea (Solano),
Thebe (McAllen), Leda (Chung), Himalia (Pinochet),
Lysithea (Friedman), Elara (Buckley), Ananke (Nixon),
Carme (Kissinger), Pasiphae (Schilling), and Sinope
(Garcia). All are tiny, between 5 and 100 kilometers
in diameter.


AMALTHEA (SOLAN0)


The largest of the moonlets, hollow Amalthea is prob-
ably the most livable sarcophagus habitat due to the
large lake created from its icy core. Living on Solano
carries some prestige among Junta citizens. Rumor has
it that most of the residents are well-placed RAND
think tank personnel, most of whom work on defense
projects. A fusion-powered axial light tube illuminates














the 30-kilometer diameter central cavern, whose Europa suggested that beneath the ice would be fathom-


landscape is patterned after the subdivisions and office less depths of black water ending at a depth of nearly











parks of an early 21°-century suburb. All buildings
have envirosealing so that the occasional bouts of envi-
ronmental sepsis resulting from the poorly regulated
interior ecosystem can be purged with toxin bombs.
Less-fortunate support personnel dwell in the beehive
warrens crisscrossing the moonlet’s crust between
cavern and surface. Like most of Jupiter’s moonlets,
Amalthea’s space crawls with patrol craft and killsats,
making approach for unauthorized ships problematic
at best. 1.5 million transhumans live on Solano.


I)


Beneath Io’s tenuous, patchy atmosphere of volcanic
gases and neutral atomic dust lies a barren, grayish
yellow, rocky surface coated with a thin frost of sulfur
dioxide. Tidal heating caused by gravitational inter-
action with Jupiter makes Io the most volcanically
active body in the system—so active that the meteor
cratering found on every other planet and moon is
completely absent on Io. Massive volcanic calderas,
lakes of molten rock, and geysers of sulfur dot the
surface, with eruptions and accompanying seismic
activity lasting months or years. Volcanic zones on
Io reach surface temperatures of up to 1,500 Kelvin,
hotter than any body in the system.

For all that, transhumanity’s worst peril on Io is
radiation. Ejecta from geysers and volcanoes flow
with Jupiter’s magnetic field to form a titanic, toroidal
flux tube that rotates with Io around the gas giant.
Travelers to Io must either use the heaviest radiation
shielding available or resleeve into synthetic morphs.

Transhuman activity on Io centers around scientific
research and harvesting the volatiles ejected by Io’s
geysers, particularly sulfur. Bases tend to be modular
and mobile due to the ever-changing seismic activ-
ity. The Junta’s most notorious prison, Maui Patera
Rehabilitation Center, is dug into a (mostly) extinct
caldera wall north of the equator.


CUROPH


Europa has no atmosphere and lies within the fear-
some magnetosphere of Jupiter. Its surface is bom-
barded with enough radiation for an unshielded
transhuman to receive an irrevocably fatal dosage
within a few days—much faster when Europa’s orbit
passes through Jupiter’s immense magnetotail. As a
result, transhumans on Europa dwell beneath the icy
crust, largely in the ocean below, adopting a variety of
aquatic and amphibious morphs for survival. The only
surface facilities are the heavily shielded ice elevator
heads at Conamara Chaos and several other points
through which reactor mass and other crucial supplies
can be delivered to the Europans below.
Transhumanity is still exploring and imaging the
Europan ocean floor, a task complicated by the hideous
pressures at work in these waters, which are ten times
as deep as the Earth’s oceans. A further surprise await-
ing transhumanity was the terrain. The geology of


7” EY a We ——(‘“_isOSsSCSCS





500 kilometers in a relatively flat, featureless sea bed.
Were Europa a lifeless ball of ice and rock, this would
be the case, but over the estimated billion years since
the rise of life on Europa, tiny lithoderms (analogs to
Earth’s coral) have built silicate reefs that rise to within
a few hundred meters of the ice crust. It is on these
biologically formed mountain tops, home to complex
ecosystems, that the Europans have built their habitats.

While based on water-carbon chemistry like life of
Earth origin, life on Europa is completely autocthonic,
having originated beneath an impenetrable ice sheet
that cut off Europa’s subsurface ocean completely
from outside. This is in marked contrast to Earth life,
which some biologists have theorized might be the
result of galactic panspermia, the slow diffusion of
microbes through the vacuum of space aboard comets
or asteroids. As such, the fauna of Europa are of great
interest to transhuman bioscience.


BIOSCIENCES


Europa’s life forms, unique perhaps in the universe,
are its greatest treasure, and transhumanity’s efforts
to catalog them are only beginning. The rush to
exploit Europan biodivesity puts the Jovian Junta in
an uncomfortable situation. While they control space
traffic and commerce in the Jovian system, they lack
the native talent to take real advantage of knowledge
gleaned from Europa. At first, they engaged in ham-
fisted excise operations aimed at squeezing revenue
out of knowledge exports. But once farcasters and
egocasters came online below the ice, this type of
extortion no longer worked. Now the Jovians have
shifted to a two-pronged strategy of levying tariffs
on new equipment and people brought down the ice
elevators by hypercorps and research collectives, and
of holding the entire population of the moon hostage
by refusing delivery of key resources like reactor mass
and rare elements if protection fees are not paid.


HABITATS


Europan habitats take two forms: fortified fishing and
farming havens clinging to the spires of the lithoder-
mic reefs and spherical bubble warrens constructed
by boring into the lower reaches of the ice crust and
shoring up the hollows created. The latter are the only
air-filled spaces beneath the ice. The largest warren
is Conamara, at the base of the Conamara Chaos ice
elevator. Conamara is surrounded by five nearby reef
havens, also considered part of the habitat. The total
population is 1.5 million.


GANYMEDE AND CALLISTO


Larger in size than Luna, but darkly colored and not
as heavily cratered, Ganymede and Callisto are very
similar worlds. Neither is as dense (nor has as much
gravity), as their mantles consist of more ice than
iron rock. Both possess abundant volatiles and water
(albeit frozen), making them ideal candidates for


wy
v


?¢


3. 3.5.5.3. 2 e


p


3.
2”
A


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a


co
co








\


|


=


-
2
a


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an coher }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





habitation. Ganymede, with its differentiated surface
of rocky and icy terrain, has an iron core and thus a
faint magnetic field. Callisto, the smaller of the two,
is composed mostly of icy silicate clays. As on Luna,
most cities on Ganymede and Callisto are built below
ground to shield them from meteor impacts (and, on
Ganymede, from Jupiter’s radioactive bombardment).

While within the “protection” of the Jovian
Republic, both moons are a patchwork of city-states.
Some are full members of the Jovian polity, while
others are only tolerated. Ganymede tends to swing
more heavily toward the Junta, as its citizens still
see the Junta-maintained infrastructure—accurately
or not—as necessary in such a hostile environment.
Callisto, outside the worst radioactive effects of the
Jovian magnetosphere, is an easier place for techno-
progressivism to gain a foothold.


HUODEN


The nucleus of this city-state was a research station
founded by a coalition of Pacific Rim nations in
Callisto’s Valhalla region, a massive primordial
impact zone where the icy subsurface lies exposed,
simplifying extraction of clean water. When the Fall
came, Hyoden, which had long faced labor short-
ages, opened itself to those refugees who could make
it to Jupiter. Now Hyoden has 2 million inhabitants,
making it the largest city-state on Callisto and the
largest non-Junta state in the Jovian system. Hyoden
is itself heavily militarized, as the tendency of the local
authorities to turn a blind eye toward operatives using
their territory for forays against the Junta makes for
uneasy relations with their powerful neighbor.


LIBERTY


Situated along the southern edge of the vast, rocky
plain called Galileo Regio, almost on Ganymede’s
equator, Liberty (population 7 million) is the Junta’s
largest planetary city-state. It is closely tied to Liberty
Station, a major shipyard and defense installation in
geosynchronous orbit. Major industries include ship-
building, space construction, fabrication, and security
products and services. The Castle, the central security
network point from which all surveillance data col-
lected in the Junta is monitored and processed, is
rumored to be in or near Liberty. Liberty is mostly
underground, but it boasts a number of parks in
armored surface domes. If one were to spend enough
time topside, one would see the deceleration torches
of incoming metal asteroids from the belt bound for
the shipyards lighting up the sky several times a day.


THE TROJANS
(JOVIAN TROJAN AND GREER ASTEROIDS)


The Trojans and Greeks are two 600 million kilome-
ter-long arcs of scattered, icy-rock asteroids sharing
the orbit of Jupiter. They orbit in the stable L4 and
L5 points sixty degrees ahead of and behind the giant
planet. Mars and Neptune also have Trojan asteroids,


——
ae een
z=
—

——=
———————|
—=——
=





but when someone speaks of “the Trojans” they’re
normally talking about the Jovian groups. In the early
days, L4 asteroids (ahead of Jupiter) were named after
Greek heroes of Homer’s Iliad; LS asteroids (trailing
Jupiter) were named after heroes of Troy. Asteroids
discovered more recently break the old convention, as
there are far more objects in the Trojans than there
were characters in the Iliad.

Politically, the Trojans and Greeks may be thought
of as a collection of sometimes overlapping neigh-
borhoods whose inhabitants tend to group around
particular cultures, factions, and sometimes languages.
A neighborhood in the Trojans might span anywhere
from 250,000 to 2 million kilometers at its widest
point. Within neighborhoods, almost everyone knows
one other. Because of the wide dispersion of resources,
Trojan habitats tend to be small—from one to two
thousand people—and built largely along scum barge
or cluster lines (although it is never advisable to refer
to someone’s habitat as a scum barge unless they refer
to it that way first).


RESOURCES AND ECONOMICS


Although the sheer size of the two regions means a
lot of cultural diversity, anarcho-collectivism is a
powerful meme here and the reputation economy
is prevalent. On one hand, neighborhoods, habitats,
and even individuals are expected to be self-sufficient.
Unlike the denser Main Belt, the Trojans lack the
safety net provided by pervasive transhuman pres-
ence. The ideal Trojan or Greek is a Neo-Renaissance
being, incredibly competent in a wide variety of fields.
A person who can’t maneuver in zero g; maintain
their gear, ship, and hab; and navigate between rocks
and habitats can have a tough time surviving. At the
same time, a spirit of cooperation prevails. Bartering
services or even gifting them to gain reputation is
common. Everyone appreciates a specialist, as long
as they’re not specialized at the expense of baseline
self-sufficiency.

Prospecting and salvage are major activities in the
Trojans, where metals and rare elements are scarce
and settlers don’t usually have the economic muscle
to import raw materials from elsewhere. However,
the Trojans are rich in silicates, volatiles, and carbo-
naceous materials. Necessity has led to many innova-
tions in materials science. Beyond the simple problem
of raw materials, the widely scattered habitats of the
Trojans have to be wildly inventive on many levels
to retain their independence. New robot, morph,
and vehicle designs appear all the time, enabling an
unusual array of business and leisure activities, like
whaling (organizing a flash flotilla to rapidly mine
asteroids and comets with erratic orbits as they pass
near the Trojans), mekking (simulated—or sometimes
real—combat between robotic suits or synthetic
morphs on uninhabited asteroids with interesting
terrain), and shrining (stealthing up on another
habitat and resurfacing it with nanosculpters to
create an art object—mostly a scum barge pastime).








LOCUS


Locus is the largest cluster habitat ever formed. It


is still growing, with over one million inhabitants
in the habitat proper and another million in the
nearby suburbs of scum barges and small asteroid
stations. Locus is located in Cassandra’s Reach, one
of the denser regions in the LS Trojans. The habitat
is positioned at the center of mass around which the
two asteroids making up the binary object Patroclus
orbit one another. Both Patroclus asteroids are
themselves inhabited and hold defense installations,
mines, and refineries.

The design of Locus is very similar to the much
smaller Lot 49, but Locus is eleven kilometers in
diameter and somewhat irregular in shape, as growth
along some spars is faster than others. A quarter of its
total volume is cut out in a roughly conical shape all
the way to the Amoeba, an immense, softly glowing
sculpture at the center of the habitat. Some differ-
ences from smaller Trojan clusters are dictated by
Locus’s size. The immense structural spars radiating
from the habitat’s center are hollow, with arterial
floatways and elevator-trams running inside of them.
Lesser spars run between the arterial spars, providing
more mooring points for modules. Adjacent to each
arterial spar are wide “roads” leading to the edge of
the habitat so that modules can maneuver out if the
owners decide to leave.

Beneath the shimmering mesh stretched over the
geodesic frame to keep out micro-asteroids, tens of
thousands of small ships and habitat modules moored
along the spars pulse with an ever-changing array of
lights. Habitat modules and large ships are asked
to stay out of the conical empty space. This space
teems with small craft and people on thrustpacks
or voidscooters as they cross the habitat, play zero-g
games, or visit the free-floating spimes and sculptures
that dot the area. The Amoeba, which periodically
changes color and shape based on its resident AI’s
programming (often it looks like some sort of animal),





serves as a central reference point for navigation.
When someone gives the address for a module, it is
as a point on a spherical coordinate system with the
Amoeba at its center. Large ships and shuttles dock on
the outer surface of the habitat, at the terminal points
of the arterial spars.

Locus was founded by a joint anarchist-argonaut
venture and was the first major stronghold for the
autonomist factions. Unlike Extropia, which has
the tacit blessing of the Planetary Consortium and
encourages the presence of security and insur-
ance companies, Locus runs on a pure reputation
economy. Security, maintenance, expansion, and
defense of the habitat are all performed by volun-
teers. Inhabitants interested in security monitor
incoming ships and operate crowdsourcing systems
that dispatch volunteers to perform WMD scans on
new arrivals. Ships that won’t submit to a scan are
asked to leave. If they don’t, anyone who’s designed
a cool new weapons system recently is welcome to
take a shot.

Locus is a focal point in the cold war between the
hypercorp-aligned inner system powers and a loose
coalition of outer system interests. While saboteurs
from the Planetary Consortium and other hostile enti-
ties can and do occasionally cause trouble on Locus,
the hypercorps are currently unwilling to attempt a
direct military attack on the habitat. The first time
they tried, the Planetary Consortium and the Martian
city-state of Valles-New Shanghai sent a small expedi-
tionary fleet. The interlopers were caught completely
off-guard by a fierce and well-coordinated defense.
Six months later, they sent a much larger fleet. Help
arrived from elsewhere in the Trojans and Greeks
and from Titan, whose citizens took a dim view of
any Planetary Consortium expansion beyond the belt.
The Titanians now maintain a permanent base near
Locus. Rumor has it they agreed to a mutual defense
pact with one of Locus’s citizens, possibly the famous
programmer-armsman Teilhard Liu.


“Welcome to Locus. You voluntarily
assume the risk of organic damage or
mental trauma by mooring here. You
must bring or be capable of acquiring
enough food, H,0, oxygen, and shelter
to survive for the duration of your stay
in a harsh, asteroid-rich environment.
Weapons of mass destruction are pro-
hibited. Further guidelines for coexist-
ing with your fellow entities are in the
nY<] OVC] MII AVN] @ LU) (0 com (OLUM-TATO MODAN ANOLE
are responsible for yourself—learn to
love it!”
—Locus Immigration AR broadcast


“You have chosen the habitat Locus
in the L5 Trojans as your destination,
using the private carrier Atsuko van
Vogt as your receptor. ComEx corporate
policy requires us to inform you that
the destination and carrier you have
selected are unregistered and possibly
unsafe. ComEx takes no responsibility
for the continuity of your consciousness
upon arrival. You assume any and all
risks for travel to this point, including
theft of forks or deletion. ComEx will
include a permanent record of travel
with this carrier on your file. Would you
like to continue?”
—ComEx legal disclaimer


“The ComEx disclaimer? Yes, yes ...
Listen: my neighbor three doors toward
the Amoeba from here is a physicist.
She has a box that generates micro-
singularities in her lab. If people along
my spar found out I'd stolen a fork of
someone, they'd pop my stack with a
grapefruit knife and throw it in there.
That's what we call ‘accountability.’ See
if you get the same from ComEx.”

SE AUSIULCOMICIIMUOLeL I ate


























































<<


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE





wy
Y


?¢


PE


3. 3.5: 5,3. 2 e


3.
2”
A


p



































SYNOPSIS






WELCOME TO FIREWALL






A TIME OF ECLIPSE






GAME MECHANICS





CHARACTER CREATION










SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


7


\CTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS

THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR

GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A


Lot 49 is moored to the small asteroid 28349 Pynchon
in the amorphous Vonarburg-Shadyside neighbor-
hood, toward the center of the L4 Greeks. Vonarburg-
Shadyside is named after two rocks that roughly
delimit its 500,000-kilometer length along the arc of
Jupiter’s orbit. Neighboring habitats within 100,000
kilometers (with populations) include Craftsbury
(450), Greenview (28), and Blackhawk (1020). With a
population of 400, this station is more or less typical
of the Trojans in terms of layout.

From the outside, Lot 49 looks like a shiny,
meshed-over geodesic sphere, 800 meters in diameter,
with numerous protruding instrument spars and some
triangles left open to space so that shuttles can pass
through. The mooring to the asteroid is temporary in
case a potential collision is detected. Inside, a central
utility module with a communal reactor, factories,
and machine bay is surrounded by evenly spaced but
irregularly shaped habitat modules in a riot of colors
and lighting schemes. Structural spars and floatways
connect everything. One entire spar is given over to a
rotating cylindrical module that generates about 0.7 g
and contains medical, cloning, resleeving, and darknet
egocasting facilities.

Lot 49’s population and most of their neighbors
in Vonarburg-Shadyside tend to align with the scum
and anarchist factions and speak a mixture of English,
Portuguese, and Thai. Lot 49 is in a densely inhabited
part of the Greeks, placing it near a crossroads. Main
economic activities include shuttle design, whaling,
and ferrying people and goods around the region.


SATURIM


The second largest planet in the system is a much
more favorable habitat for transhumans than Jupiter.
Saturn’s lower gravity and milder magnetosphere are a
boon to gas mining operations, and for resource-hun-
ery habs, the rings are a feast (literally, in the case of
the new Hamilton cylinder type habitats). Hypercorps
have a presence here, but any major expansion by
the Planetary Consortium is kept in check by the


DATE ENPEDITION REPORT S027










anarchist stations of the rings and the technosocialist
commonwealth of Titan.

Because Saturn is so distant from the sun, solar
power generation is extremely inefficient. Growing
photosynthetic plants with sunlight is impossible
without large arrays of mirrors to focus the light. The
abundance of water and volatiles makes the rings
ideal for both scum barges and Hamilton cylinders.
Gas mining is vital to the survival of almost every
habitat and moon settlement in the Saturnian system,
so habitats located further out from the planet that
wish to be self-sufficient almost always maintain their
own gas mining stations close to the planet. Security
for these installations and the atmospheric skimmers
and tankers they dispatch is tight, and it is never
advisable to approach one unannounced.


RESOURCES AND ECONOMICS


Gas mining on Saturn supplies 30 percent of the sys-
tem’s reactor mass. This role is expected to grow as
helium-3 deposits in the Lunar regolith become less
accessible. For ships traveling to the far reaches of
the outer system, Saturn is an important alternative
to using Jupiter for gravity assists. Less restrictive
than Jovian regimes and richer in resources than the
Trojans, Circumsaturnine habs and settlements are
important innovators in habitat design and cultural
organization. Since the discovery of the Pandora gates,
the Titanian Commonwealth is the only entity actively
pursuing interstellar exploration through conven-
tional means.


THE RINGS AND CLASSICAL MINOR MOONS


Saturn’s rings are made up of countless small icy
objects, most of which range in size from dust specks
to boulders 10 meters in diameter. The rings are des-
ignated by the letters “A” through “F” in the order in
which they were discovered. They vary in thickness
between 100 and 1,000 meters and in width from
20,000 kilometers down to just meters. In places there
are gaps between rings. The widest, the Cassini divi-
sion, is 4,000 kilometers across.


Gate Code Setting: [Encrypted]
Gatekeeper Corporation Eyes Only

Preliminary drone and sensor
reports indicate the gate’s exoplanet
environs were underground in a cavern
formed of carbonaceous rock with a
nitrogen dioxide atmosphere. There
were no signs of life or sapient activ-
ity. A squad of gatecrashers was sent
through, guided by an exploration
drone, with a communication link back
to the gate.

Approximately one hour after
the team moved into the tunnels,


consistent communication was lost
due to electromagnetic interference. At
this point they had reported nothing
more notable than moving just over a
kilometer through a warren of tunnels.
The team was not heard from again.
Two hours after contact was lost, a
tethered search-and-rescue drone was
deployed. Following the gatecrash-
ers’ breadcrumb trail, the drone came
upon what appeared to be a severed
hand in a vacsuit glove near the limits
of its tether range. DNA testing did
not identify the hand as belonging to


any members of the team, however,
nor did it match any other database
queries. The drone was detached from
its tether to search further, but shortly
after sensors recorded some type of
seismic event and communication with
the drone was also lost.

The gate was kept active for 8
more hours—the duration of the
contract—with no sign of activity.
The gate was then closed, the team
reported as lost/unretrievable, and the
gate settings were recorded with an
orange flag. ad











Saturn has over 60 satellites, a number
that jumps into the hundreds if one
includes the uncounted objects less than
a kilometer across orbiting in the A ring.
Most of Saturn’s moons are small, rocky,
ice objects less than 100 kilometers in
diameter. The smallest of the classical
moons, Pan, is only 10 kilometers across.
The first eight moons, from Enceladus
inward, lie within the ring system. Atlas,
at the edge of the A ring, and Prometheus
and Pandora, which flank the thin F ring,
are known as the shepherd moons. Several
of the moonlets occupy Lagrange points
relative to larger moons. Telesto and
Calypso share the orbit of much larger
Tethys, while Helene trails another large
moon, Dione.


ATLAS (VOLROGRARD)


Volkov, a Slavic energy cartel, controls
this tiny moon. Volkograad is a beehive
habitat with about 50,000 residents.
Much of the moon is given over to skim-
ming, refining, and shipping infrastructure.
A cloud of wreckage trailing the moonlet
by about 100,000 kilometers serves as a
reminder of the Atlas Incident, a brief but
massively destructive battle that erupted
when Fa Jing attempted a buyout of the
moon. Tinkers from Phelan’s Recourse
still salvage the floating derelicts regularly.


DIONE (THOROUGH GOOD)

Dione’s main settlement is Thoroughgood
(population 350,000), a hybrid beehive
and orbital cluster habitat set on a plateau
amid a dramatic range of ice cliffs. Dione
hosts the Long Array, a 150 kilometer-
high communications spar ascending
from the surface settlement to an orbital
station that acts as a counterweight. The
Long Array’s sheer size is something of a
publicity stunt, as the bulk of its capacity
goes unused. However, it drew enough
attention to make Thoroughgood a
major communications hub for the outer
system, and thus a place where hypercorp,
anarchist, and other factional interests
meet. Dione shares its orbit with Helene,
a tiny, rocky moon at its L4 point, and
Polydeuces, an even smaller body that
trails it at the L5 point.


ENCELADUS (PROFUNDA)


Rich in organic compounds, Enceladus
is a biochemist’s playground. Profunda
(population 850,000) is the major
settlement, a beehive dug into the moon’s








surface capped by domed parks and clus-
ters of sleek, translucent minarets—well
protected from collisions by an aggres-
sive satellite defense network. The lower
levels, stretching deep into Enceladus’s
icy silicate mantle, include a prospecting
operation that extracts carbonaceous soils
in search of exotic compounds. Another
deep section has been converted into a
kilometers-wide, reactor-heated primor-
dial sea, part of a long-term experiment
into the origins of life supported jointly
by Titanian academics and a collective of
Enceladian biochemists.

Profunda is run along anarcho-capi-
talist lines. Thanks to the rich supply of
organic chemicals, its upper reaches are
home to many of the outer system’s best-
known morph designers. The Enceladian
Glitter Bloc is said to have as much influ-
ence over body styles as the Lunar fashion
houses do over what people wear.


EPIMETHUS AND JANUS
(TWELVE COMMONS)


These twin small, icy moonlets share virtu-
ally the same path around Saturn, orbiting
within 50 kilometers of each other. Set
between the F and G Rings, the moonlets
form the center of Twelve Commons, a
neighborhood of small and mid-size
habitats arranged in a flat cloud about
20,000 kilometers in radius. About six
million people live in Twelve Commons.
Habitats in Twelve Commons range in
size from Dang Fish Echo, a tin can hab
housing about 60 eccentric aquaculturists,
to Janus Common, a beehive occupy-
ing much of Janus with a population of
900,000. Some of the habitats in Twelve
Commons feature very unusual designs,
such as Nguyen’s Compact (population
80,000), a variant Cole habitat in the
G ring where an asteroid was heated
and large amounts of steam were blown
through it to produce a series of intercon-
nected bubbles between five and three
hundred meters in diameter. In effect, the
interior of the colony is like a solidified
foam or Swiss cheese with no obvious up
or down. Without an ecto or basic implant
to provide location and navigation infor-
mation, navigating through this maze-like
habitat would be exceedingly difficult.

The habitats of Twelve Commons
organize themselves primarily along open-
source anarcho-syndicalist lines, with
work groups and research pods acting as
the basic political unit.








\


|


=


-
2
a


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an cone }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





GATEWAY (PANDORA)


The Gateway settlement, on Saturn’s outer shepherd
moon Pandora, holds the first publicly known worm-
hole gate. The Gatekeeper Corporation keeps the
gate Open as a means of exploration and scientific
investigation for all factions and powers. Gatekeeper
was originally a Titanian microcorp but is now inde-
pendent. The Commonwealth of Titan still holds a
major stake in it, though not a controlling interest.
Granting autonomy to Gatekeeper Corporation was
a diplomatic maneuver made in response to Planetary
Consortium claims that the Titanians sought hege-
mony in the outer system. So far, Titan’s neighbors are
buying it, even if the Planetary Consortium doesn’t.


HUPERION


With its chaotic, virtually unpredictable rotation,
Hyperion is a dangerous place to land ships. It
remains uninhabited.


IAPETUS


Iapetus is one of Saturn’s larger icy moons and once
boasted a population of 200,000 living in the dense
warrens of Analect, its main settlement. Probably
because it is one of the few large moons of Saturn that
contains sizable deposits of silicates and minerals in
addition to ice, lapetus was a target of the TITANs
during the Fall. After enslaving a tenth of the popu-
lace as worker drones and using the rest as seed stock
for tissue cultures to feed their fellows, the TITANs
began to build what appears to have been a Jupiter
brain, turning the entire moon into a computational
structure. Iapetus now occupies twice the volume
it once did, the ice and silicate of the planet’s outer
layers having been reworked into a delicate lattice of
circuitry millions of layers deep.

Strangely, the project simply stalled at some point
prior to completion. Speculation is that the control-
ling intelligence was either destroyed by an unknown
outside force or devoured itself in a fit of computa-
tional ecstasy. Whatever the case, the drones simply
stopped working and died and the moon’s automated
defense grid went dead, leaving a strangely beautiful
but lifeless machine behind to slowly decay from
meteor impacts and gravitational stress. Several
research teams now reside in small orbital stations,
quarreling over the scraps. Rumor has it that a
number of scientists trying to understand the Jupiter
brain circuitry have lost their minds in the process,
perhaps by some mechanism akin to a basilisk hack.
It is also believed that some of the moon’s internal
defenses remain active. If anyone has plumbed the
interior and come back, they’re not talking about it.


MENTHAB


The full name of this unique habitat is Turn Yourself
Into a Giant Mass of Space Meat for Art!, and as the
name implies, 90% of the habitat’s structure consists
of fast-cultured vat bacon, battened on the abun-
dant resources of the ring system. MeatHab started


——
ha
z=
—

——=
———————|
=
=





out as someone’s art morph, but then, against all
expectations, squatters moved in. MeatHab now has
a population of 500. Similar to a Hamilton cylinder,
the kilometer-long habitat harvests and processes ring
material to grow itself. The outer surface is frozen
flesh ten meters thick whose surface resembles a cross
between a tree trunk and flank steak. Past the axial
space dock is a warren of veinous, skin-covered cor-
ridors lit by bioluminescent panels and maintained by
small, reptilian symbiotes that eat away dead skin and
may have other immune functions as well. Gravity
inside is 0.5 g.

The nameless biodesigner who created the place—
and who may or may not still inhabit the gigantic
morph—was a genius. Although the habitat is not
by any stretch of the imagination a pleasant locale, it
appears healthy. Its full workings are not understood,
and the inhabitants range from extreme flesh freaks
who are fans of the artist to serious biodesigners
studying the place to learn more about its construction.


MIMAS (HARMONIOUS ANARCHY)


Led by legendary Chinese dissident poet Hao Lin
Ngai, Harmonious Anarchy broke from the Fa Jing
cartel during the tumultuous years prior to the Fall.
Hao sought to create a society in the spirit of the
ancient Taoist state of Great Perfection that existed
in Szechuan 1,700 years earlier—with considerable
updates from modern thought. Harmonious Anarchy
is an Extropian mutualist society heavily involved
in software engineering, logistics, and relocation of
metallic asteroids to the outer system. Most of Mimas
is a very low-g beehive arranged into Black, Red,
Yellow, Green, and White neighborhoods, based on the
five classical directions of Chinese mythology. Each
color boasts an ornate central cavern, with extended
families living in radiating subwarrens. While adhering
to mutalist economic principles, Harmonious Anarchy
simultaneously takes a traditional Chinese approach
to social organization, with family at its core.


MORSE. INUIT, AND GALLIC MOONLETS


In addition to the classical satellites described here,
three groups of small objects unknown to early astron-
omers orbit the planet. These moonlets are designated
as the Inuit, Gallic, and Norse groups. Because these
moonlets were still little explored by the time of the
Fall, most of them remain sparsely populated. With a
few exceptions, inhabitants of the moonlets are gener-
ally people who want to be left alone. The exceptions
are Skathi and Abramsen (formerly S/2007 S 2), which,
along with Phoebe, were captured and moved into
Titan’s orbit, where they serve as defense installations.


PAN (IZULU}


Volkograad’s closest competitor is this anarcho-
capitalist outfit, most of whose founders were South
African. iZulu has a somewhat lower capacity than
Volkograad but will ship reactor mass to unusual loca-
tions like the Trojans and the Kuiper Belt. iZulu is








a very crowded beehive with nearly 400,000 inhabit-
ants and an unusually large number of infugees. The
nations of sub-Saharan Africa were only starting to
achieve widespread 20" century-levels of prosperity
in the late 213'and so they had the lowest capacity to
physically evacuate their citizens during the Fall of any
region on Earth. iZulu and a handful of other habitats
with roots in Africa thus have high infomorph popula-
tions and millions of people in dead storage.


PHELAN 5 RECOURSE


Phelan’s Recourse (usually just called “Phelan’s” by
inhabitants) is the largest nomadic settlement in the
system, with a population estimated around 250,000.
Phelan’s is a swarm of some 10,000 small craft and tin
can habitat modules that orbits Saturn along a highly
elliptical path somewhat inclined to the plane of the
ecliptic. The swarm’s orbit is calculated to maximize
the number of encounters with near moons and sta-
tions, providing a six to eight hour window in which
craft can leave the swarm for trade. Phelan’s Recourse
passes through the rings once a month, allowing craft
to resupply with water and volatiles.

Phelan’s accepts all comers. One could meet just
about anyone here, from the government in exile of
East Timor to hasidim from Brooklyn. The core of the
swarm is the Stills, a fusion-illuminated grain farm and
distillery operated by an allegedly reformed gang of
Irish travelers who conned their way off Earth a few
weeks before the Fall and escaped to the outer system.
The Stills produce Phelan’s Ma, the most sought-after
whiskey in the system, and Phelan’s Da, possibly the
worst beer ever made. Despite the Phelans’ protesta-
tions of legitimacy, the criminal element is heavily
represented here. The swarm represents an important
link in red and gray market supply chains.


PROMETHEUS (MARSEILLES)


Marseilles (population 80,000) is a beehive habitat
operated by the Titanians. It is rumored to harbor an
antimatter factory, a theory supported by the large
number of skimmers that arrive from the surface rela-
tive to the number of tankers that leave.


RHEA (KRONOS CLUSTER)


At a 764-kilometer diameter, Rhea is Saturn’s second
largest moon. Composed almost entirely of ice, Rhea’s
surface is sparsely inhabited, but a population of over
800,000 dwells in Kronos Cluster, a major habitat
in orbit. Kronos Cluster’s mass-microfactured violet
spherical modules make it look like an immense, irreg-
ular bunch of grapes suspended in space, an impres-
sion added to by the winding space dock (nicknamed
the Vine) extending from the wider end. Within the
mass of habitat modules, the Vine branches out in all
directions, forming massive central arteries and twist-
ing side passages. These can be traversed by pushing
off hand- and toeholds on the walls or by catching
grab loops that move along “fast lanes” in the walls
of major floatways.








i” EY a We ——“‘“sS


Nearly five kilometers long and three wide, Kronos
has major problems with crowding and infrastructure
that have kept it from growing to the same size as
Locus. The designers simply did not plan for the
size the place might reach, and as a result another
150,000 people live in suburbs of tin can habs and
scum barges in the space around the habitat.

Kronos can be an extremely dangerous place.
Insurance companies don’t like operating here, and
the habitat is a patchwork of criminal and anarchist
neighborhoods. Anarchist zones are generally heavily
armed and safe, but a trip from an anarchist holding
to the spaceport is best done with a group of well-
armed friends. Criminal neighborhoods are only safe
if you’re in the neighborhood’s controlling gang, and
even then conflicts flare up regularly.

The situation is exacerbated by the Kronos Port
Authority, a junta of ultimates who operate security
for the spaceport. Originally an Extropian hypercorp,
the KPA fell into the hands of the ultimates when
they decided that they could profit more directly by
owning the company outright than by working as
hired muscle. They violently ousted the original man-
agement and now use indentures in worker pods to
maintain the port. This situation is tolerated by the
local crime bosses and loathed by the mostly anarchist
citizens, but so far no one is able to challenge the KPA,
which enforces use of the port rather than any other
mooring point with killsats and artillery.


TETHYS (GODWINKERD)


Composed almost entirely of ice, Tethys is one of
Saturn’s larger moons and the site of Ithaca Chasma, a
2,000-kilometer long valley covering three-quarters of
Tethys’s circumference. Fifteen years ago, prospectors
from an ethnically Indo-British autonomist collective
called the Rioters touched down on Godwin Head,
a projection in the chasm wall so named because it
resembles a headland projecting out into the sea.
Instruments on their ship, the Caleb Williams, had
detected what looked like mineral deposits in the ice,
rare on Tethys. What they found instead were relics
thrust to the surface by a geological event eons earlier,
the remains of primordial life that became extinct
millions of years ago when Tethys cooled and its sub-
surface ocean froze over.

Godwinhead is now a dense, efficient settle-
ment of 200,000 built into the five kilometer high
canyon walls. The central point of the town is the
Caleb Williams, which has been towed back into a
sheltering cavern in the wall and converted into a
communal workshop and town hall. The face of the
valley wall is honeycombed with excavated ice caves
hosting habitat modules, connected by conduits to
a communal utility grid. The trusswork and cabling
for the utility system is also the public transit system,
easily traversed in the minute Tethyan gravity. The
unofficial mascot of Godwinhead is the Tethyan
Flatworm, a two millimeter-long translucent worm
that represented the pinnacle of Tethyan evolution.


3.5.5.3. ?
17>
~~


3.3"
er
A


p


‘Y
Y


-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


a








=
5








\


|


=


-
2
a


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an cone }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A





A large number of the inhabitants are involved in
biosciences, xenopaleontology, and prospecting for
frozen lifeforms.

Tethys shares its orbit with its Trojan moons
Telesto and Calypso, both of which are small and
sparsely populated.


TITAN


Saturn’s largest moon is shrouded in a permanent
orange atmospheric haze, hellishly cold (averaging
180 degrees below), and whipped by winds produced
by tidal forces four times stronger than those influ-
encing Earth’s climate. On its face, it appears even
less hospitable than the airless balls of ice and rock
comprising every world between Titan and Mars. The
meager sunlight reaching its surface is insufficient to
grow any but the hardiest plants, the mostly nitrogen
atmosphere is dangerously toxic, and the surface is
dotted with lakes and seas of liquid methane. In spite
of all this, abundant hydrocarbons, a thick atmo-
sphere, and diverse chemistry make Titan one of the
few worlds in the system where colonists may rely
entirely on local resources. Titan’s population is now
over 60 million.

Social money and the microcorp system have led
to some spectacular gains and failures. On the upside,
Titan’s civil resleeving industry produces more
morphs than Mars and Luna combined. Massive
infrastructure programs have provided enough space
for 60 million people to live comfortably on a hostile
world. The Large Collider, the biggest particle accel-
erator ever produced, in polar orbit, enables physics
experiments that can be performed nowhere else in
the system. And two years ago, Titan dispatched the
first conventional interstellar probe, the Aubade. It
will reach Proxima Centauri in just under 20 years.

On the downside, Titan’s “body for every mind”
law burdens the civic resleeving system with a lot
of people who no one would ever have bothered
resleeving otherwise. The failure of the Scoop project,
an extremely costly attempt to build a pipeline from
Saturn’s surface to low orbit, allowing massive gas
extraction without costly atmospheric skimmer oper-
ations, stymied Titan’s ambitions to become a major
antimatter producer. Titan does produce antimatter,
but on a much smaller scale than was envisioned
when the Scoop project began.

Commonly spoken languages on Titan include
Norsk, Francais, Deutsch, Mandarin, Svenska,
Dansk, and Suomi. Most citizens inhabit hazers, a
tall, fine-boned morph with very similar characteris-
tics to the Martian ruster. Patagium for gliding and
flying in the light Titanian gravity are a common
biomod. Titanians do three years of compulsory
civil service at the age of majority, with an emphasis
on military and security forces except for conscien-
tious objecters. Every citizen who has done military
service is part of the militia and has an assault
weapon in their home.


——
ra
z=
—

——=
SS
=,
=





AARHUS


Located near Titan’s south pole on the shores of
Ontario Lacus, a wide, shallow sea of liquid methane,
Aarhus (population five million) was the first site of
human habitation on Titan, chosen for its proximity to
abundant hydrocarbons. The city is the physical hub of
Titan Autonomous University (TAU) and hosts numer-
ous other academic institutions, most notably Titan
Tech, a major engineering school. Unlike Martian
universities, which have few physical campus buildings,
TAU and other Titanian schools draw many of their
students from the widely scattered habitats of the outer
system, where delays in radio communication make
distance learning ineffective. Fully 20% of Aarhus’s
population are students, many of them offworlders.

Aarhus’s layout is typical of Titanian cities. Three
central domes are surrounded by numerous smaller
structures, including lesser domes, fusion plants, and
industrial outbuildings, the most massive of which is
the now-abandoned methane utility plant on the lake
shore. The dome interiors are hung with lighting rods
and heavily built up with tall, narrow buildings, most
of which have upper decks where hazers on the wing
and pedal-powered microlights can land. Exterior
structures usually have outer walls built of ice for
shielding and structural support with internal walls
extruded from local silicates. Many buildings are a
rich azure or other shades of blue for contrast with
the ever-present orange glow of the Titanian sky.

Unlike most Titanian cities, Aarhus relies primarily
on fusion power. Aarhus is the center of Titan’s native
preservationist movement, which opposes inefficient
use of native hydrocarbon resources due to possible
long term effects on Titan’s climate.


NEW QUEBEC


New Quebec lies on a plain in the Aaru region sur-
rounded by endless rippling dunes shaped by Titan’s
powerful winds. The region’s diverse chemical resources
supply the colossal nurseries that have made New
Quebec the system’s largest single producer of morphs.
The city is 50 kilometers from Montmorency Lacus,
a 20 kilometer-wide crater lake of liquid ethane and
methane. Originally thought to be an impact crater,
rare on Titan, geological studies later showed it to
be the collapsed remains of an extinct cryovolcano.
Situated in a rainy area, the lacus slowly drains over
the crater lip at Montmorency Cascade, a 200-meter
carbonfall that empties into a series of alluvial channels
from which the Quebecoise pump its output for fuel.
The St. Catherine Tong, the most dangerous native
Titanian mob, is based in New Quebec. Titanian law
is generally very permissive regarding individual free-
doms, so the vices this gang trades in are of the black-
est: snuff pods, stolen alpha forks, and nanoweaponry.
A ready supply of fresh morphs bought from corrupt
microcorp nursery administrators further fuels their
rackets. The Tong is extremely violent and a major
embarrassment to Commonwealth security forces.








UAV


Set near the equator

cial liens hiCaeek Olli Geeiee

hills of the Xanadu region,
Nyhavn (population 12 million)

is the largest city in the outer
system and the capital of the Titanian





















































Commonwealth. Nyhavn’s massive
central dome, with its elegant blue towers
and bioengineered parklands, rivals New
Shanghai in size and ambition. Three surrounding
domes and a sprawl of subsidiary structures are con-
nected by high-clearance flyways, where ground vehi-
cles and microlights form a steady stream of traffic
at all hours. At the same time, the squalid blandness
that prevails in the Martian suburbs and outlying
souks is absent; the dwellings and neighborhoods of
the Titanian working class display a riot of color and
design, empowered by public fabricators limited by
none of the enforced scarcity of Martian economics.
For all its idealism, the Plurality is not immune to a
desire to showcase its achievements.
Outside the city is a pipeline leading from the vast
Tyska Lacus, 100 kilometers distant. Commonwealth
Skyport, Titan’s principal spaceport, offers quick
access to Commonwealth Hub, the Titan system’s of the three objects. The other two
long-haul space dock, located in geostationary were maneuvered into the system’s L4
orbit above the city. The surrounding countryside and LS points. The calculations required
is dotted with smaller settlements connected to to relocate these bodies were painstaking
Nyhavn by trains and a well-developed network of and the energy expenditure tremendous, but all
surface roads. three now serve as major components of Titan’s
Nyhavn is a major media center, with daily life orbital defense grid. Whether the system created
closely attentive to the debates and decisions of the thereby is impregnable has yet to be tested.
Plurality. At the same time, it is a cosmopolitan place,
where Titan’s microcorp movers rub shoulders with URANUS
visiting anarchist traders and (less commonly) lega- Once thought of as gas giants like Saturn and Jupiter,
tions from the inner system. There is an active under- Uranus and Neptune differ from the larger planets in
world, despite the efforts of security forces, with that they contain large amounts of water ice, methane,
the local St. Catherine Tong engaged in continual and ammonia and have rocky cores at their centers.
low-intensity warfare with triads from throughout This region of the system is sparsely populated.
the system. Uranus orbits at a distance 10 AU beyond the orbit
of Saturn, 20 times the distance of the Earth from
PHOEBE. SHATHI, AND ABRAMSEN the sun.
After the conflict at Locus, the Plurality became Uranus, the coldest planet in the solar system, is a
embroiled in a hot debate regarding the dangers of blue-green sphere of ice and gas. Seen from afar, it is
hypercorp adventurism in the outer system. It was virtually featureless compared to Saturn and Jupiter,
generally felt that the Planetary Consortium hoped to but up close subtle cloud formations and a tenuous
keep the outer system in a position similar to where ring system may be observed. Probably due to a colli-
the United States kept Latin America by meddling in sion with an Earth-sized world when the solar system
its affairs throughout the nineteenth and twentieth was young, Uranus rotates on its side, such that one
centuries, and that the only counter to this was a pole faces the sun for 42 years at a stretch, and its
show of force. Titan’s thick atmospheric haze makes moons orbit at a sharp angle to the solar ecliptic.


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


ground-based space defense systems considerably less At the time of Eclipse Phase, Uranus’s south pole
effective than on other worlds, but satellites and space is experiencing its mid-spring, during which thick
platforms were too vulnerable to serve as command methane clouds darken the polar atmosphere. It


and control centers. may be the unusual tilt of its axis and the accom-
The solution was to capture three of Saturn’s small panying strange seasonal weather that give rise to
retrograde moons—Phoebe, Skathi, and Abramsen the unconfirmed rumor that the alien traders called


(once designated S/2007 S 2, now renamed after a the Factors have created a settlement hidden in
pioneering Titanian economist). Phoebe is the largest Uranus’s atmosphere.





\


|


,


‘


a
in
|Z


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
rious an cone }
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


A


|
‘}


]
| |





TITANIA AND OBERON


Uranus’s two largest moons are sparsely populated,
with only about 10,000 transhumans living on each
body. Most stations are mixed dome and beehive set-
tlements and range from hypercorp communications
and research outposts to autonomist freeholds. The
pair are more chemically complex than most moons
in the outer system, consisting of about 30% rock,
20% methane and similar carbonaceous ices, and
50% water. Titania is home to a spectacular canyon
that rivals the Martian Valles Marineris. Several
settlements on Titania cater to tourists from the inner
system and the gas giants, who visit for rocketing,
mekking, and other sports in the canyon.


CHAT MOIR AND FISSURE GATE


Located on Oberon, this is the Uranian system’s
primary long haul spaceport, with a permanent popu-
lation of 8,000. Chat Noir has fairly advanced ego-
casting, resleeving, and manufacturing facilities for a
frontier outpost and is operated by several collectives
of anarchists. The reason for all of the infrastructure
is the Fissure Gate, the only Pandora gate in anarchist
hands (despite several Planetary Consortium expedi-
tions to wrest control of it).

Fissure Gate was discovered by a prospecting expe-
dition from Chat Noir, then a tiny outpost. Seeking
deposits of the useful carbonaceous ices that make up
about 20% of Oberon’s mass, they instead chanced
upon subsurface radio emissions near the foot of Mt.
Hippolyta. After triangulating the source, the prospec-
tors landed and used subsurface imaging gear. What
they got back was a blurry image of a rock fissure
containing an ambiguous mass of mixed density and
an extremely dense, possibly metallic object with
a shape too regular to be anything but a structure
or large artifact—all under 500 meters of ages-old
frozen cryovolcanic outflow. The gate at Pandora was
already publicly known at this time, so the prospec-
tors drilled down, suspecting they’d found an alien
artifact. They were not to be disappointed, although
the discovery yielded gruesome salvage: the barely
recognizable corpses of eleven gatecrashers.

Why and how the Fissure Gate was erected under
the ice remains a complete mystery. At some recent
point, however, it was completely buried, with only
a thin pocket of space between it and the surround-
ing ice. When the eleven emerged, buried in an
airless space beneath 500 meters of ice, there was
barely room to move, let alone escape—but the gate
wouldn’t let them back through. Several of the crew
had recoverable cortical stacks. This lucky handful
are now prominent citizens of Chat Noir, but none
plan to resume gatecrashing as a career.

The Fissure Gate remains in anarchist hands, oper-
ated and defended by the Love and Rage Collective.
The gate is made available to almost anyone unless
their rep score is tanked or they are pursuing com-
mercial interests (ruling out most hypercorps).
Support for gatecrashers is minimal—traverse the


———
=o
SS
—

—
[SSS
==
=a





threshold at your own risk. Any discoveries made via
this gate, however, must be shared for the collective
good of transhumanity.


AID HOS


One of two major strongholds of the ultimates,
Xiphos is a Hamilton cylinder orbiting in the Uranian
ring system. Though most of the tech underlying
Hamilton cylinders is open source, the station’s fright-
eningly efficient weapon systems are not. Rumor has
it the ultimates traded some major favors to Gorgon
Defense Systems in the process of building this station.
Where Aspis, the ultimates’ inner system habitat, is a
relatively open place, used by the ultimates for contact
with potential mercenary clients, Xiphos is off limits
to anyone not of this faction. The rumored popula-
tion of ultimates here is only about 10,000, but the
ultimates purchase a large number of infomorph
indentures from Mars. Although there are no reports
of any of these indentures returning, rumor has it that
the ultimates download indentures serving in sensitive
areas into zeroes—deaf, visually limited flats with no
mesh implants and limited mental capacity.


NEPTUNE


Frigid, swept by 2,100 km/h winds, and tinged blue
by methane traces in its atmosphere, Neptune is the
last major planet in the system, orbiting at a distance
of 30 AU from the sun. This far from the nearest star,
plants will not grow and solar power is useless. The
only sources of power are fusion, focused starlight,
waste heat, and chemical reactions. The hypercorp
presence in the Neptunian system is virtually absent,
as the long communication lags and extreme travel
distances from the rest of the solar system mean that
few Neptunian ventures garner profits. Similarly, the
Titanian brand of technosocialism has never found
roots here. The few transhumans who live out here are
a resourceful lot, and many colonists out here aren’t
human at all. Anarchists, brinkers, and desperados
comprise most of the population.


GLITCH


This habitat has the highest population density in the
system, with 20,000 infomorphs living in a meshed
cluster of twenty spherical structures that are 10
meters in diameter, powered by efficient central
reactor systems. The habitat is attended by a cloud
of factories, harvesters, and defense satellites that
occupy considerably more space than the station
itself. Various rumors circulate that the inhabitants
are researching methods to improve infomorphs in the
manner of seed Als, or that they are engaged in some
vast forecasting simulation effort.


ILMARINEN


Aligned with the argonauts, Ilmarinen is a hybrid
beehive/cluster dug into and partially protruding
from the large L4 asteroid Greymere. It is the largest
habitat in Neptune’s Trojans, with a population of








7,000. Like many transhumans this far out in space,
most of Ilmarinen’s inhabitants are heavily modified
or inhabit exotic morphs. Vacuum- and cold-tolerant
morphs prevail, and many sections of the habitat are
unlivable for baseline transhumans.


MAHOGANY


The neo-avians who built this station threw away
the manual on habitat design and revisited the long-
out of favor toroidal configuration. The result is a
disc habitat—a plate half a kilometer along the edge
and one kilometer in diameter, resembling a slice
of an O’Neill cylinder with no windows. A fusion-
powered, low-heat, axial light source nourishes
the verdant hardwood forest below. Structures are
built into the disc walls up to 500 meters in height.
The disc, mostly woven from carbon fibers, rotates
quickly enough to generate 0.5 g at the habitat floor.
Mahogany has a population of 4,000 mercurials,
most of them neo-avians.


MINOR MOONS


Neptune’s other twelve moons are largely small bodies,
icy and sparsely (if at all) populated. Proteus and
Larissa, both sizable and relatively close to the planet,
host small populations. Naiad and Thalassa are tiny
but very close to the planet and thus home to some
atmospheric skimming operations. Neso, orbiting
at about 1/3" an AU from Neptune, has never been
visited—even by robotic probes.


MEPTUNIAN TROJANS


Trailing and preceding Neptune at the L4 and L5
points of its orbit are several hundred asteroids of
diverse, mostly icy composition. Neptune’s Trojans
are home to brinkers, hard-bitten prospectors, exotic
exhumans, and other extreme survivalists.


TRITON


Neptune’s largest moon has a tenuous atmosphere and
is chemically complex, composed of equal parts rock
and ices (frozen nitrogen, water, and carbon dioxyde).
It is also geologically active, with cryovolcanoes con-
tinually resurfacing the planet. The surface has few
inhabitants but several stations orbit here, using the
moon’s abundant raw materials and low escape veloc-
ity to their advantage.


THE EDGE OF THE SYSTEM


Beyond Neptune lie only dwarf planets and icy aster-
oids waiting to become comets, roughly divided into
two regions: the Kuiper Belt, from 30 to 55 AU from
the Sun, and the Scattered Disk, which extends from
55 AU out to the Oort Cloud. Pluto, its binary object
Charon, and Eris have compositions similar to Triton.
A few small habitats orbit Pluto and Charon, eking
out a living by prospecting for volatiles. A number of
other dwarf planets orbit in the Kuiper belt and the
Disk, including Orcus, Senda, and 2000 0067. Of
these, only Eris harbors a substantial population.








i” ey a We ——“‘“sS


ERIS

Located at 55 AU from the sun at the edge of the
Scattered Disk, Eris is the largest dwarf planet in the
system and the site of a grim struggle between two
of transhumanity’s most militant factions: ultimates
and exhumans. The focal point of the struggle is the
Discord Gate, the most remote of the system’s publicly
known Pandora gates, located in an icy labyrinth half
a kilometer beneath the surface of Eris.

The brief history of the gate is bloody. Go-nin
Group troops violently wrested control of the gate
from the IImarinen anarchists who discovered it. Titan
and several anarchist and brinker groups both tried
to dislodge Go-nin, but these attempts failed, at great
cost in lives and ships. Go-nin’s control of the gate
seemed ensured until the hypercorp apparently tam-
pered too heavily with the gate’s black box controls.
A devastating explosion ensued, all but wiping out the
gate and Go-nin base. The gate, however, restructured
itself over the course of several days, though its loca-
tion has now shifted to the bottom of a melted crater.

In the short period it took the Go-nin Group to hire a
group of ultimate mercenaries to retake the gate, a hith-
erto unknown force of exhumans seized the area. The
ultimates succeeded, but a group of exhumans escaped
through the gate. Go-nin now has nominal control of
the Discord Gate through the ultimates, who maintain
a heavily militarized base on Eris’s moon, Dysnomia.
However, in recent years the gate facility has suffered
several attacks by exhumans eager to infiltrate the
gate—and according to rumors, at least one of those
attacks originated from the gate itself.


MARhOV


The location of this habitat, a major stronghold of
the argonauts, is a closely guarded secret. Attempts
to search it out have revealed only decoys or lifeless
rocks. Though a great deal of information is avail-
able about the habitat’s specs, operations, areas of
research, and informational resources, only highly
placed members of the argonauts may travel here.
By all accounts, the habitat is a windowless beehive,
designed to be virtually emissionless. Speculated loca-
tions include Pluto’s moon Hydra, the deep Kuiper
Belt, and even the Oort Cloud.


EATARSOLAR oUSTEMs


Although travel between the stars is still outside the
realm of transhumanity’s achievements, the Pandora
gates have allowed passage to myriad other star
systems. A few are noted here, though many more
exist—not all of them explored.


ECHO


Echo is a binary system consisting of a bright orange
main sequence star and a pulsar (whence the system’s
name) about 12 light hours from one another. The
system has one immense, bright yellow Jovian world
(Echo VI) weighing in at 1.8 Jupiter masses and
boasting 101 known moons, two Neptune-like ice








-_


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


w
wy
Y


3. 3. Z.5:5,3. 2
7


f\





2


p


giants further out, a thin mid-system asteroid belt, and several
Mercury-like inner planets.

The original Pandora Gate opens onto lifeless Echo V, a forbid-
ding place littered with the detritus of a dead alien civilization. The
hollow buildings of these precursors look out over once-verdant
alluvial plains now home to only dry arroyos and dust. In other
places, eons of wind erosion have carried the soil away entirely,
leaving only barren expanses of dark basaltic slag. Chemically and
geologically, the world is very similar to Mars, had Mars suffered
another half a billion years’ loss of atmosphere. Research into the
relics of the long-dead aliens suggests that they were morphologi-
cally similar to arthropods or arachnids, earning them the designa-
tion of Iktomi, after a Native American spider god. So far, little else
has been discerned about them.

Echo IV, on the other hand, is the closest thing transhuman-
ity has found to a paradise since losing Earth. The native life is
carbon-based, with many plants and fish edible even to flats. The
climate is warm temperate, the atmosphere breathable with no
major contaminants. The northern and southern latitudes are home
to trackless forests dominated by various species of valders—huge,
maple-like trees with dark red leaves. In the equatorial regions lie
balmy, nutrient-rich floodplains ripe for cultivation, broken up by
the occasional mountain range. Echo IV is still geologically active
due to tidal heating, though older than Earth by about two billions
years, and has two mega-continents connected near the equator
by a tenuous land bridge. Notable native life include the unagi, a
fearsome, eel-like deep sea predator, and the clown sprite, a flying
primate-analog that exists in a symbiotic relationship with the
Echolalian land anenome, a huge, venomous, carnivorous plant
that grows in the cloud forests of the equatorial highlands. The bio-
sphere is diverse with many other megafauna, some quite dangerous.


LUCK


Luca is an M-Class red dwarf located in a region of the galaxy
far removed from any point of reference known to transhuman
astronomy. The system has only a single gas giant of about 1.4


Jupiter masses—insufficient to shield the inner worlds from constant


asteroid bombardment. The lone gas giant is flanked by a tenuous
metallic inner asteroid belt and a wide ice and silicate outer belt.
The only other bodies worthy of planetary status are a hellish inner
world with Mercury’s richness of metal and Venus’s infernal atmo-
sphere and a few large, sullen plutoids sharing Lagrange orbits with
an asteroid field comprised of the shattered mass of a third plutoid.

Accessible by both the Vulcanoid and Fissure Gates, Luca II
is a heavily cratered terrestrial planet with a thick, dusty atmo-
sphere—just about breathable to transhumans with the right gear.
It is a cold, rocky world of craggy hills, knee-high forests, hissing
geothermal bogs, and fungal meadows. The natives, who have been
extinct for at least a million years, evolved from animals not unlike
Earth’s aardvarks. Originally insect mound predators, the Lucans
evolved vision well into the infrared (as demonstrated by the
unusual pigments on their pottery and later-stage porcelain) and,
based on analysis of their artifacts, had a sense akin to ultrasonic
imaging. Their civilization went through several cycles of rise and
fall, punctuated by celestial cataclysms that killed off less adaptable
species and made resources scarce. The Lucans seem never to have
evolved past medieval levels of societal organization prior to the
Great Impact. Within a hundred years of that final impact, the last
of the Lucans perished, never having invented the telescope, the
computer, or space flight.











Luca II hosts Banshee, an underground settlement
with a few prominent surface features, including a
radio astronomy station, park domes, a short-hop
aerospace port, and solar farms. It is set on the
Howling Plain, a windy plain of scrub brush and bogs
chosen for its rich hydrocarbon deposits and low inci-
dence of asteroid impacts. Banshee is an uneasy blend
of anarchist colonists and hypercorp interests.


MISHIPIZHEU


Mishipizheu is a red giant. The planet from which
the star takes its name, Mishipizheu I, is a Mars-sized
sphere of water with an atmosphere of nitrogen and
carbon dioxide and a rocky core. Mishipizheu I was
an almost Venus-sized sphere of ice 700 million years
ago, but the expansion of its star into the red giant
phase melted the planet. Initially quite warm and full
of pockets of ice and carbonaceous silts, the melting
planet was a crucible in which life could develop and
now hosts a complex ecosystem. Amoeboid boiler
reefs composed of gas sac creatures and their symbi-
otes bob on the surface or maintain neutral buoyancy
in the depths, becoming platforms for complex ecosys-
tems of largely animalian life.

Mishipizheu I is orbited by a mid-size rocky
moon, Nanabozho, reachable via the Discord Gate.
Nanabozho is a mystery, as moons of this composition
are not normally found so far out in a system. The
best current theory is that Nanabozho was an inner
system object with an erratic orbit. It was perturbed
out of its orbit by one of the now-engulfed gas giants
that must once have existed, whence by chance it was
captured in Mishipizheu’s orbit. The extraordinarily
slim chances of such an event, however, have led to
wild speculation as to the actual origin of the moon,
which is as popular a destination for gatecrashers as
the planet below.


SYNERGY


Among the first attempts to establish a gatecrasher
colony beyond the original Pandora Gate, just 5
years after the Fall, was a group of two hundred and
fifty colonists equipped with experimental headware
communications technology. Shortly after the jump,
however, a still unidentified glitch forced the gate
to close and the mechanism could not be reset to
the same setting and coordinates for an entire five
years. When the gate technicians finally managed to
reacquire the settings recently and reopen the gate, the
colonists were found to have survived, but they had
changed. The technology sent with them was largely
AI controlled, enabling the creation of a hypermesh
that linked the thoughts, emotions, and sensory expe-
riences of each colonist with each other. After half a
decade of difficult survival measures, this technology
and the stress of the situation linked the colonists and
their Als into a group mind. Despite having the oppor-
tunity to return to the solar system, these Synergists,
as they call themselves, have no desire to cut them-
selves off from their shared consciousness.






0 vn





OTHER ENOPLANETS


The number of extraterrestrial star systems that trans-
humanity has visited via the gates now numbers into
the hundreds, if not more—though only a small per-
centage of these have been notable and/or hospitable.
Only a few dozen have been substantially occupied
or colonized by transhumans, though this number is
growing rapidly. Among these, a few deserve mention:

Arcadia: Accessed through the Martian Gate, the
Planetary Consortium is constructing an aerostat in
the upper atmosphere of this Venus-like planet which
will serve as a private resort for the hyperelite.

Babylon: Initially thought to just be an unremark-
able scorched moon orbiting a planet very close to
a yellow star, researchers measuring the star made
an incredible accident discovery: what appears to
be a derelict spacecraft orbiting deep in the star’s
corona. Attempts to access this vessel have so far been
thwarted, but other projects are in the works, includ-
ing the possibility of towing the craft to safer climes.

Bluewood: One of the first anarchist colonies estab-
lished through the Fissure Gate, this settlement inhabits
a beautiful, small Earth-like world with a thriving eco-
system. Established on the outskirts of a large forest
of eerie, alien, blue “trees,” the colony was taken off-
guard by the trees alarming growth rate. The modular
settlement buildings have all but been surrounded and
encased by overgrowth despite modest efforts to keep
them clear. Still intact but engulfed by spiraling branch-
works, the effect is beautiful and haunting.

Nott: This barren ice-covered moon suffers from
heavy geothermal activity that causes its frozen crust to
constantly crack and refreeze. The unfortunate research
station staff here, all indentured, claim that something
out in the ice is stalking them—over a dozen have dis-
appeared in the last year. Pathfinder refuses to pull the
station back, however, and thorough searches from its
security teams have turned up nothing.

Sky Ark: TerraGenesis is redesigning this dry, arid
moonlet as an offworld preserve for animal life,
including many formerly extinct Earth species resur-
rected from fossil DNA.

Wormwood: This maze-like warren seems to be an
actual beehive habitat, though who tunneled it out
or why remains an unanswered mystery. The former
asteroid is part of the ring system of an unknown gas
giant. Clearly artificial, gatecrashers so far have found
no signs of technology or life.


ANALYSIS: MYST TREES


[File Corruption: 98%]
[Partial Retrieval Complete]

. called “myst trees” by the residen@#
of Ca*&78 ... also found on tw) oth*r
exoplanets ]]]]] ... seem to be some sort of
living data storage{{[— ... utilizing nanofog
systems for <|{9h ... high pr@bability of
alien origin [[I[L[i ; a

































































A TIME OF ECLIPSE





CO ST ee a ae. & —_


=





DICE


Eclipse Phase uses percentile dice—d100,
or two ten-sided dice (d10s) M@ p. 114


MAKING TESTS


All tests are d100 rolls, trying to roll under or equal to a target number. The target number is determined
by your skill rating, with modifiers applied depending on how difficult the task is. 00 is always a success;
99 always a failure. Ml p. 115






GAME RULES SUMMARY





CHARACTER DEFINITIONS





All Eclipse Phase characters have certain consider-
ations to take into account before you move on to
character generation. These considerations are:





All the basics are summarized on p. 127,


with additonal references to where those rules are


found in the book. ™ p. 127


Concept: Personality and Identity M™ p. 120


" Motivations: 3 ideologies, desires, or
driving factors. Ml p. 120


Ego: Your inherent personal characteristics


that remain with you from morph to morph.
Mp. 121


Morph: Physical (and sometimes virtual)
form. @ pp. 121 and 123


Aptitudes: 7 core skills representing your


ingrained talents. @ p. 122


~ Learned Skills: Your education and
training; determines the target
numbers for most tests. Ml p. 123


~ Traits: Qualities and features, both
negative and positive. Ml p. 123

Rep: Aggregate opinions about your
character on varying social nets. Ml p. 125


In every game, there comes a time when the gamemas-
ter must decide if a character succeeds or fails in an
action. This is when the players roll dice and the char-
acters’ stats and abilities come into play. This chapter





defines the core mechanics and rules that govern the
outcomes of events in Eclipse Phase.


THE ULTIMATE RULE


One rule in Eclipse Phase outweighs all of the others:
have fun. This means that you should never let the
rules get in the way of the game. If you don’t like a rule,
change it. If you can’t find a rule, make one up. If you
disagree over a rule’s interpretation, flip a coin. Try not
to let rules interfere with the game’s flow and mood. If
you’re in the middle of a really good scene or intense
roleplaying and a rule suddenly comes into question,
don’t stop the game to look it up and argue about it. Just
wing it, make a decision quickly, and move on. You can
always look the rule up later so you’ll remember it next
time. If there are disagreements over a rule’s interpreta-
tion, remember that the gamemaster gets the final say.
This rule also means that you shouldn’t let the story
be guided solely by rolls of the dice. The element of
chance that dice rolls provide lends a sense of random-
ness, uncertainty, and surprise to the game. Sometimes
this is exciting, like when a character makes an
unexpectedly difficult roll and saves the day. At other
times, it is brutal, such as when a lucky shot from an
opponent takes one of the characters out for good in a


WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE


roll threatens that plan, they should feel free to ignore
ee that roll and move the story in the direction they desire.





fight. If the gamemaster wants a scenario to result in a
pre-planned dramatic outcome and an unexpected die





nc


Eclipse Phase uses two ten-sided dice (each noted as
a d10) for random rolls. In most cases, the rules will
call for a percentile roll, noted as d100, meaning that


SKILLS









A NOTE ONT


The Eclipse Phase setting
What does it mean when you
F-Vate|Ur-\el-m-lale mle | hulale panda) kar) ky a
are} ikjamr-lare|0r-\el-m ar-r-m elimel ml o)f-ee))Vr-1ae
For purposes of this game, we've si:






the “Singular They” rule. What this means is that rat





you roll two ten-sided dice, choosing one to count first,


and then read them as a result between 0 and 99 (with
a roll of 00 counting as zero, not 100). The first die
counts as the tens digit, and the second die counts as
the ones digit. For example, you roll two ten-sided
dice, one red and one black, calling out red first. The
red one rolls a 1 and the black die rolls a 6, for a result
of 16. Some sets of d10s, as shown above, are specifi-
cally marked for easier rolling and reading.

Occasionally the rules will call for individual die
rolls, with each individual ten-sided die listed as a d10.
If the rules call for several dice to be rolled, it will
be noted as 2d10, 3d10, and so on. When multiple
ten-sided dice are rolled in these instances, the results
are added together. For example, a 3d10 roll of 4,
6, and 7 counts as 17. On d10 rolls, a result of 0 is
treated as a 10, not a zero.

Most players of Eclipse Phase can get by with
having two ten-sided dice, but it doesn’t hurt to
have more on hand. These dice can be purchased
at your friendly local game store or borrowed from
another gamer.





switching between gendered pronouns (“he” in one ct
use of “they” even when referring to a single person. Tc
actually some good evidence that this usage has strong hi
our editors fewer headaches. —
When referring to specific characters, we use the gen


lex=yaxe)ar-] met-zale(=)aule(=laiaiayAmalemaat-1ue-) am dalomy-> ey im dal-m ale)














>on as SS —————— See —<——SS>











MARING TESTS


In Eclipse Phase, your character is bound to find
themself in adrenalin-pumping action scenes, high-
stress social situations, lethal combats, spine-tingling
investigations, and similar situations filled with drama,
risk, and adventure. When your character is embroiled
in these scenarios, you determine how well they do by
making tests—rolling dice to determine if they succeed
or fail, and to what degree.

You make tests in Eclipse Phase by rolling d100 and
comparing the result to a target number. The target
number is typically determined by one of your char-
acter’s skills (discussed below) and ranges between 1
and 98. If you roll less than or equal to the target
number, you succeed (though the closer you get to the
target number, the better). If you roll higher than the
target number, you fail.

A roll of 00 is always considered a success. A roll of
99 is always a failure.


Jaqui’s character needs to make a skill test. Her
skill is 55. Jaqui takes two ten-sided dice and
rolls a 53—she succeeds! If she had rolled a 55,
she still would have been successful, but any roll
higher than that would have been a failure.


THROET NUMBERS


As noted above, the target number for a d100 roll in





Eclipse Phase is usually the skill rating. Occasionally,
however, a different figure will be used. In some
cases, an aptitude score is used, which makes for
much harder tests as aptitude scores are usually well
below 50 (see Aptitudes, p. 122). In other tests, the
target number will be an aptitude rating x 2 or x 3 or
two aptitudes added together. In these cases, the test
description will note what rating(s) to use.


WHEN TO MAE TESTS


The gamemaster decides when a character must
make a test. As a rule of thumb, tests are called for
whenever there is a chance that a character might fail
at an action or when success or failure may have an
effect on the ongoing story. Tests are also called for
whenever two or more characters act in opposition to
one another (for example, if they are arm wrestling or
haggling over a price). On the other hand, routine use
of a skill by someone with at least a rating of 30 in
that skill can be assumed to be successful with no test.

It is not necessary to make tests for everyday, run-of-
the-mill activities, such as getting dressed or checking
your email (especially in Eclipse Phase, where so many
activities are automatically handled by the machines
around you). Even an activity such as driving a car
does not call for dice rolls as long as you have a small
modicum of skill. A test might be necessary, however,
if you happen to be driving while bleeding to death or
are pursuing a gang of motorcycle-riding scavengers
through the ruins of a devastated city.


Knowing when to call for tests and when to let the
roleplaying flow without interruption is a skill every
gamemaster must acquire. Sometimes it is better to
simply make a call without rolling dice in order to
maintain the pacing of the game. Likewise, in certain
circumstances the gamemaster may decide to make tests
for a character in secret, without the player noticing. If
an enemy is trying to sneak past a character on guard,
for example, the gamemaster will alert the player that
something is amiss if they ask them to make a perception
test. This means that the gamemaster should keep a copy
of each character’s record sheet on hand at all times.


DIFFICULTY AND MODIFIERS


The measure of a test’s diffi-
culty is reflected in its modifiers.
Modifiers are adjustments made DIFFICULTY LEVEL
to the target number (not the


roll), either raising or lowering


TEST DIFFICULTY


MODIFIER


Effortless


it. A test of average difficulty | Simple ee


will have no modifiers, whereas Easy
actions that are easier will have |
positive modifiers (raising the |
target number, making success Difficult
more likely) and harder actions
will have negative modifiers
(lowering the target number,
making success less likely). It is
the gamemaster’s job to deter-
mine if a particular test is harder
or easier than normal and to


SEVERITY
what degree (as illustrated on the Minot
Test Difficulty table) and to then |”
apply the appropriate modifier.

Other factors might also play a Major
role in a test, applying additional
modifiers aside from the test’s general level of difficulty.
These factors include the environment, equipment (or
lack thereof), and the health of the character, among
other things. The character might be using superior
tools, working in poor conditions, or even wounded,
and each of these factors must be taken into account,
applying additional modifiers to the target number
and adjusting the likelihood of success or failure.

For simplicity, modifiers are applied in multiples
of 10 and come in three levels of severity: Minor (+/-10),
Moderate (+/—20), and Major (+/-30). Any number of
modifiers apply as the gamemaster deems appropriate,
but the cumulative modifiers may not exceed +/-60.


Jaqui is attempting to leap from one door to
another across a large chamber in zero gravity.
She's in a hurry. If she misses the door, she'll lose
valuable time, so the gamemaster calls for a Freefall
Skill Test. Jaqui's Freefall skill is 46. Unfortunately
the chamber is filled with floating debris that could
get in her way. The gamemaster determines this is a
Moderate modifier, reducing the target number by
20. Jaqui must roll a 26 or less to succeed.





Average





MODIFIER SEVERITY


MODIFIER


Moderate





GAME MECHANICS


1

































CRITICALS: ROLLING DOUBLES


Any time both dice come up with the same number—

00, 11, 22, 33, 44, etc.—you have scored a critical

success or critical failure, depending on whether your

. roll also beats your target number. 00 is always a
ra critical success, whereas 99 is always a critical failure.
: Rolling doubles means that a little something extra
happened with the outcome of the test, either positive





SIMPLIFYING
MODIFIE





ike) amen" reverse th
modifier that best s
method is quicker
iso) On One \


dark, he's running with a flashlight, aa there's
debris everywhere. Tyska, however, has an ent-
o)o) (om nite) OM ODN UaT=M o\=<a mm COLULCMOLUL MO) MUAT-1¢-MCOMAT=1|0
him out. The gamemaster assesses the situation
and decides the overall effect is that the test is
challenging, and so a —20 modifier is applied.


ayers to invest more aaeail Evare|
creativity into the itelavilalse fou can award
“narrative modifiers” to a character's test when
that player describes what the character is _
doing in exceptionally colorful, inventive, or
dramatic detail. The better the detail, the
better the modifier.


le
Cole doesn’t just want his character to jump
over the table, he wants to make an impact.
Cole tells the gamemaster that his character
kicks a chair out of the way, rolls over the dinner
table on his shoulder, grabs a fork as he does
it, makes sure to knock all of the fine china on
the floor, then lands on Bis saa ina ese


EXAMPLE






or negative. Criticals have a very specific application
in combat tests (p. 191), but for all other purposes
the gamemaster decides what exactly went wrong or
right in a specific situation. Criticals can be used to
amplify a success or failure: you finish with a flour-
ish or fail so spectacularly that you remain the butt
of jokes for weeks to come. They can also result in
some sort of unexpected secondary effect: you repair
the device and improve its performance; or you fail
to shoot your enemy and hit an innocent bystander.
Alternately, a critical can be used to give a boost (or
a hindrance) to a follow-up action. For example, you
not only spot a clue, but you immediately suspect it
to be red herring; or you not only fail to strike the
target, but your weapon breaks, leaving you defense-
less. Gamemasters are encouraged to be inventive with
their use of criticals and choose results that create
comedy, drama, or tension.


Audrey is attempting to intimidate a low-level triad
mook into giving her information. Unfortunately
she rolls a 99—a critical failure. Not only does
she fail to scare the guy, but she accidentally lets
slip an important piece of information that she
didn't want the triad to know. If she rolled a 00
instead—a critical success—she would browbeat
the man so thoroughly that he throws in some
extra important information just so she'll leave
him alone in the future.


DEFRULTING: UNTRAIMED SKILL USE


Certain tests may call for a character to use a skill they





don’t have—a process called defaulting. In this case,
the character instead uses the rating of the aptitude
(p. 122) that is linked to the skill in question as the
target number.

Not all skills may be defaulted; some of them are
so complex or require such training than an unskilled
character can’t hope to succeed. Skills that may not be
defaulted on are noted on the Skill List, (p. 176) and
in the skill description.

In rare cases, a gamemaster might allow a character
to default to another skill that also relates to a test (see
Defaulting to Related Skills, p. 173). When allowed,
defaulting to another skill incurs a -30 modifier.


Toljek is trying to casually sneak inside a hyper-
corp facility when he unexpectedly runs into a
hypercorp employee. The woman he's encountered
doesn't necessarily have grounds to be suspicious
of Toljek's presence, but the gamemaster calls for
Toljek to make a Protocol Test to pass himself off
as someone that belongs there. Unfortunately,
Toljek doesn't have that skill, so he must default to
its linked aptitude, Savvy, instead. His Savvy score
is only 18, so Toljek better hope he gets lucky.

















TEAMWORh


If two or more characters join forces to tackle a test
together, one of the characters must be chosen as the
primary actor. This leading character will usually (but
not always) be the one with the highest applicable skill.
The primary acting character is the one who rolls the
test, though they receive a +10 modifier for each addi-
tional character helping them out, up to a maximum
+30 modifier. Note that helping characters do not neces-
sarily need to know the skill being used if the gamemas-
ter decides that they can follow the primary actor’s lead.


There are two types of tests in Eclipse Phase: Success
and Opposed.


SUCCESS TESTS


Success Tests are called for whenever a character is
acting without direct opposition. They are the stan-
dard tests used to determine how well a character
exercises a particular skill or ability.

Success Tests are handled exactly as described under
Making Tests, p. 115. The player rolls d100 against a
target number equal to the character’s skill +/— modi-
fiers. If they roll equal to or less than the target number,
the test succeeds, and the action is completed as desired.
If they roll higher than the target number, the test fails.


TRYING HORI


If you fail at a test, you can take another shot. Each
subsequent attempt at an action after a failure,
however, incurs a cumulative —10 modifier. That
means the second try suffers —10, the third —20, the
fourth —30, and so on, up to the maximum —60.


TARING EATRA TIME


Most skill tests are made for Automatic, Quick, or
Complex Actions (see pp. 119)-120) and so are
resolved within one Action Turn (3 seconds, see p. 119).
Tests made for Task actions (p. 120) take longer.
Players may choose to take extra time when their
character undertakes an action, meaning that they
choose to be especially careful when performing the
action in order to enhance their chance of success. For
every minute of extra time they take, they increase
their target number by +10. Once they’ve modified
their target number to over 99, they are practically
assured of success, so the gamemaster can waive the
dice roll and grant them an automatic success. Note
that the maximum +60 modifier rule still applies, so if
their skill is under 40 to start with, taking extra time











SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


—





























may still not guarantee a favorable outcome. You may
take extra time even when defaulting (see Defaulting:
Untrained Skill Use, p. 116).

Taking extra time is a solid choice when time is not
a factor to the character, as it eliminates the chance
that a critical failure will be rolled and allows the
player to skip needless dice rolling. For certain tests it
may not be appropriate, however, if the gamemaster
decides that no amount of extra time will increase the
likelihood of success. In that case, the gamemaster
simply rules that taking extra time has no effect.

For Task action tests (p. 120), which already take
time to complete, the duration of the task must be
increased by 50 percent for each +10 modifier gained
for taking extra time.


Srit is searching through an abandoned space-
ship, looking for a sign of what happened to the
missing crew. The gamemaster tells her it will take
twenty minutes to search the whole ship. She
wants to be extra thorough, however, so she takes
an extra thirty minutes. Fifty percent of the original
timeframe is ten minutes, so taking an extra thirty
minutes means that Srit receives a +30 modifier to
her Investigation Test.


SIMPLE SUCCESS TESTS


In some circumstances, the gamemaster may not be
concerned that a character might fail a test, but instead
simply wants to gauge how well the character performs.
In this case, the gamemaster calls for a Simple Success
Test, which is handled just like a standard Success Test,
(p. 117). Rather than determining success or failure,
however, the test is assumed to succeed. The roll deter-
mines whether the character succeeds strongly (rolls
equal to or less than the target number) or succeeds
weakly (rolls above the target number).


Dav is taking a short spacewalk between two
parked ships. The gamemaster determines that this
is a routine operation and calls for Dav to make a
Simple Success Test using the Freefall skill. Dav's
skill is only 35. He rolls a 76, but the gamemaster
merely determines that Dav has some trouble
orienting himself and has to take some extra time.
If Dav had rolled a 77—a critical failure—his suit's
maneuvering jets may have died and he may have
accidentally propelled himself into deep space.


MARGIN OF SUCCESS/ FAILURE


Sometimes it may be important that a character not
only succeeds, but that they kick ass and take names
while doing it. This is usually true of situations where
the challenge is not only difficult but the action must
be pulled off with finesse. Tests of this sort may call
for a certain Margin of Success (MoS). MoS is simply
determined by what the character rolled on a successful


test. For example, a character who rolls a 20 against a
target number of 55 succeeds with an MoS of 20. The
higher the character rolls while still making it equal
to or less than the target number, the higher the MoS.
Higher skills thus make it possible to get a higher MoS.


An enemy has thrown an incendiary device near
Stoya. She has only a moment to act and decides
to try to kick it away from herself. Even better, she
hopes to kick it into the open maintenance hatch
a dozen meters away. The gamemaster determines
that in order to kick it into the hatch, Stoya needs to
succeed with an MoS of 30. Her Unarmed Combat
skill is 65, so Stoya needs to roll 65 or less to kick
the device away (though she may still be damaged
when it explodes) and 30 or higher to kick it into
the hatch (in which case she will be completely safe
when it detonates). She rolls a 32—a success with a
high enough MoS to kick it in the hatch!





At other times, it may be important to know how
badly a character fails as determined by a Margin
of Failure (MoF), which is the amount by which the
character rolled over the target number. In some cases,
a test may note that a character who fails with a
certain MoF may suffer additional consequences for
failing so dismally.


Nico is trying to sketch out a picture of someone's
face. He has eidetic memory, but his drawing needs
to be good enough for someone else to identify
the person. He rolls against his Art: Drawing skill
of 34, scoring a 97—an MoF of 63. The illustration
is so bad that the gamemaster determines that
anyone using that picture to identify the person
will need to score an MoS of at least 63 on a
Perception Test to recognize the person.





EXCELLENT SUCCESSES/SEVERE FAILURES


Excellent Successes and Severe Failures are a method
used to benchmark successes and failures with an
MoS or MoF of 30+. Excellent Successes are used in
situations where an especially good roll may boost the
intended effect, such as inflicting more damage with
a good hit in combat. Severe Failures denote a roll
that is particularly bad and has a worse effect than a
simple failure. Neither Excellent Successes or Severe
Failures are as good or bad as criticals, however.


Stoya has been caught in a deal gone bad. She
moves to kick her opponent using her Unarmed
Combat of 65. She rolls a 33 (for an MoS of 33),
and her opponent rolls a 21 (also successful, but
less than Stoya, so she wins). She has succeeded
and beaten her opponent with an MoS of 30+,
scoring an Excellent Success, meaning she will
inflict extra damage with the kick.











OPPOSED TESTS


An Opposed Test is called for whenever a character’s
action may be directly opposed by another. Regardless
of who initiates the action, both characters must make
a test against each other, with the outcome favoring
the winner.

To make an Opposed Test, each character rolls d100
against a target number equal to the relevant skill(s)
along with any appropriate modifiers. If only one of
the characters succeeds (rolls equal to or less than their
target number), that character has won. If both succeed,
the character who gets the highest dice roll wins. If
both characters fail, or they both succeed and roll the
same number, then a deadlock occurs—the charac-
ters remain pitted against each other, neither gaining
ground, until one of them takes another action and
either breaks away or makes another Opposed Test.

Note that critical successes trump high rolls in an
Opposed Test—if both characters succeed and one rolls
54 while the other rolls 44, the critical roll of 44 wins.

Care must be taken when applying modifiers in an
Opposed Test. Some modifiers will affect both partici-
pants equally, and should be applied to both tests. If
a modifier arises from one character’s advantage in
relation to the other, however, that modifier should
only be applied to benefit the favored character; it
should not also be applied as a negative modifier to
the disadvantaged character.


Zhou has been hired by the Jovian Republic to
infiltrate his old pirate band. Even though he’s
resleeved in a new skin, he’s worried that one of
his old buddies, Wen, might recognize his manner-
isms, since they lived, whored, and raided together
for years. After Zhou has spent some time in
Wen's company, the gamemaster makes a secret
Opposed Test, pitting Zhou's Impersonation skill of
57 against Wen’s Kinesics of 34. The gamemaster
decides to give Wen a bonus +20, since he is so
familiar with his former buddy and has been on the
lookout for him, eager to repay the old grudge that
split them apart. Wen’s target number is now 54.
The gamemaster rolls for both. Zhou scores a
45 and Wen a 39. Both succeed, but Zhou rolled
higher, so his deception is successful. The game-
master decides that Wen finds something about
Zhou to be familiar, but he can't put his finger on it.





OPPOSED TESTS AND MARGIN OF SUCCESS/ FAILURE


In some cases, it may also be important to note a char- —


acter’s Margin of Success or Failure in an Opposed Test,
as with a Success Test above. In this case, the MoS/MoF
is still simply determined by the character’s roll—it is
not measured against the opposing character’s roll.


VARIABLE OPPOSED TEST


In some cases, the rules will call for a Variable Opposed
Test, which allows for slightly more outcomes than a


Se,


standard Opposed Test. If both characters succeed in
a Variable Opposed Test, then an outcome is obtained
which is different from just one character winning over
the other. The exact outcomes are noted with each spe-
cific Variable Opposed Test.


Jaqui needs to hack into a local network to
retrieve some video footage. The network is
actively defended by an Al, so a Variable Opposed
Test is called for, pitting Jaqui's Infosec skill of 48
against the Al's Infosec of 25. Jaqui rolls a 48—a
success—but the Al rolls a 14—also a success. In
this circumstance, Jaqui succeeds in hacking in,
but the Al is aware of the infiltration and can take
active countermeasures against her.





TIME AND ACTIONS


Though the gamemaster is responsible for managing ™.


the speed at which events unfold, there are times when
it is important to know exactly who is acting when,
especially if some people are acting before or after other
people. In these circumstances, gameplay in Eclipse
Phase is broken down into intervals called Action Turns.


ACTION TURNS


Each Action Turn is three seconds long, meaning
there are twenty Action Turns per minute. The order
in which characters act during a turn is determined
by an Initiative Test (see Initiative, p. 121). Action
Turns are further subdivided into Action Phases. Each
character’s Speed stat (p. 121) determines the amount
of actions they can take in a turn, represented by how
many Action Phases they may take.


TYPES OF ACTIONS


The types of actions a character may take in an
Action Turn are broken down to: Automatic, Quick,
Complex, and Task actions.


AUTOMATIC ACTIONS


Automatic actions are “always on” and require no
effort from the character, assuming they are conscious.
Examples: basic perception, certain psi sleights


QUICK ACTIONS


Quick actions are simple, so they can be done fast and
can be multi-tasked. The gamemaster determines how
many Quick actions a character may take in a turn.

Examples: talking, switching a safety, activating an
implant, standing up


COMPLER ACTIONS


Complex actions require concentration or effort. The
number of Complex actions a character may take per
turn is determined by their Speed stat (p. 121).

Examples: attacking, shooting, acrobatics, disarm-
ing a bomb, detailed examination








1








Tah ACTIONS


Task actions are any actions that require
longer than one Action Turn to complete.
Each Task action has a timeframe, usually
listed in the task description or otherwise
determined by the gamemaster. The time-
frame determines how long the task takes
to complete, though this may be reduced by
10 percent for every 10 full points of MoS
the character scores on the test (see Margin
of Success/Failure, p. 118). If a character
fails on a Task action test roll, they work
on the task for a minimum period equal to
10 percent of the timeframe for each 10 full
points of MoF before realizing it’s a failure.
For Task actions with timeframes of one
day or longer, it is assumed that the charac-
ter only works eight hours per day. A char-
acter that works more hours per day may
reduce the time accordingly. Characters
working on Task actions may also inter-
rupt their work to do something else and
then pick up where they left off, unless the
gamemaster rules that the action requires
continuous and uninterrupted attention.
Similar to Taking Extra Time (p. 117), a
character may rush the job on a Task action,
taking a penalty on the test in order to
decrease the timeframe. The character must
declare they are rushing the job before they
roll the test. For every 10 percent they wish
to reduce the timeframe, they incur a -10
modifier on the test (to a maximum reduc-
tion of 60 percent with a maximum modifier


of -60).


DEFINING YOUR CHARACTER


In order to gauge and quantify what your
character is merely good at and what they
excel in—or what they are clueless about
and suck at—Eclipse Phase uses a number
of measurement factors: stats, skills, traits,
and morphs. Each of these characteristics


is recorded and tracked on your character’s
Record Sheet (p. 399).


CONCEPT


Your character concept defines who you are
in the Eclipse Phase universe. You’re not
just a run-of-the-mill plebeian with a boring
and mundane life, you’re a participant in a
post-apocalyptic transhuman future who
gets caught up in intrigue, terrible danger,
unspeakable horrors, and scrambling for sur-
vival. Much like a character in an adventure,
drama, or horror story, you are a person
to whom interesting things happen—or if
not, you make them happen. This means
your character needs a distinct personality


and sense of identity. At the very least, you
should be able to sum up your character
concept in a single sentence, such as “cantan-
kerous neotenic renegade archaeologist with
anger management issues” or “thrill-seeking
social animal who is dangerously obsessed
with conspiracy theories and mysteries.” If
it helps, you can always borrow ideas from
characters you’ve seen in movies or books,
modifying them to fit your tastes.

Your character’s concept will likely
be influenced by two important factors:
background and faction. Your background
denotes the circumstances under which
your character was raised, while your
faction indicates the post-Fall grouping
to which you most recently held ties and
allegiances. Both of these play a role in
Character Generation, (p. 130).


MOTIVATIONS


The clash of ideologies and memes is a core
component of Eclipse Phase, and so every
character has three motivations—personal
memes that dominate the character’s interests
and pursuits. These memes may be as abstract
as ideologies the character adheres to or sup-
ports—for example, social anarchism, Islamic
jihad, or bioconservatism—or they may be as
concrete as specific outcomes the character
desires, such as revealing a certain hyper-
corp’s corruption, obtaining massive personal
wealth, or winning victories for uplifted rights.
A motivation may also be framed in opposi-
tion to something; for example, anti-capital-
ism or anti-pod-citizenship, or staying out
of jail. In essence, these are ideas that moti-
vate the character to do the things they do.
Motivation is best noted as a term or short
phrase on the character sheet, marked with
a + (in favor of) or — (opposed to). Players
are encouraged to develop their own distinct
motivations for their characters, in coopera-
tion with the gamemaster. Some examples are
provided on p. 138.

In game terms, motivation is used to
help define the character’s personality and
influence their actions for roleplaying pur-
poses. It also serves to regain Moxie points
(p. 122) and earn Rez Points (see Character
Advancement, p. 152).

Motivational goals may be short-term
or long-term, and may in fact change for a
character over time. Short-term goals are
more immediately obtainable objectives
or short-lived interests, and these goals are
likely to change once achieved. Even so, they
should reflect intentions that will take more
than one game session to reach, possibly
covering weeks or months. These short-term








7


aa os


 _s -





ES ee ee ee ee SSS SSS == |S aoa





zs 2


goals may in fact tie directly into the gamemaster’s
current storyline. Examples include conducting a full
analysis of an alien artifact, completing a research
project, or living life as an uplifted dog for a while.
Long-term goals reflect deeply rooted beliefs or tasks
that require major efforts and time (possibly lifelong)
to achieve. For example, finding the lost backup of
a sibling missing since the Fall, overthrowing an
autocratic regime, or making first contact with a new
alien species. For purposes of awarding Moxie or Rez
Points, long-term goals are best broken down into
obtainable chunks. Someone whose goal is to track
down the murderer who killed their parents when they
were a child, for example, can be considered to achieve
that goal every time they discover some evidence that
brings them a little closer to solving the puzzle.


EO vs. MORPH


Eclipse Phase’s setting dictates that a distinction must
be made between a character’s ego (their ingrained self,
their personality, and inherent traits that perpetuate in
continuity) and their morph (their ephemeral physi-
cal—and sometimes virtual—form). A character’s
morph may die while the character’s ego lives on
(assuming appropriate backup measures have been
taken), transplanted into a new morph. Morphs are
expendable, but your character’s ego represents the
ongoing, continuous life path of your character’s mind,
personality, memories, knowledge, and so forth. This
continuity may be interrupted by an unexpected death
(depending on how recent the backup was made), or
by forking (see p. 273), but it represents the totality of
the character’s mental state and experiences.

Some aspects of your character—particularly skills,
along with some stats and traits—belong to your char-
acter’s ego, which means they stay with them through-
out the character’s development. Some stats and traits,
however, are determined by morph, as noted, and so
will change if your character leaves one body and
takes on another. Morphs may also affect other skills
and stats, as detailed in the morph description.

It is important that you keep ego- and morph-
derived characteristics straight, especially when
updating your character’s record sheet.


CHARACTER STATS


Your character’s stats measure several characteristics
that are important to game play: Initiative, Speed,
Durability, Wound Threshold, Lucidity, Trauma
Threshold, and Moxie. Some of these stats are inher-
ent to your character’s ego, others are influenced or
determined by morph.


INITIATIVE (NIT)


Your character’s Initiative stat helps determine when
they act in relation to other characters during the Action
Turn (see Initiative, p. 188). Your Initiative stat is equal
to your character’s Intuition + Reflexes aptitudes (see
Aptitudes, next page) divided by 5 (rounded up). Certain
implants and other factors may modify this score.












NM


£60 Shs es


Initiative

Lucidity

Trauma Threshold
Insanity Rating
Moxie


MOREA STH) S rs


Speed

Durability
Wound Threshold
Death Rating
Damage Bonus


Lazaro’s Intuition is 15 and his Reflexes score is
20. That means his Initiative is 7 (15 + 20 = 35,
35=5=7),





SPEED (S2D} ~AY


The Speed stat determines how often your character
gets to act in an Action Turn (see Initiative, p. 188). ~
All characters start with a Speed stat of 1, meaning ‘,
they act once per turn. Certain implants and other Ne
advantages may boost this up to a maximum of 4.


DURABILITY (DUR)


Durability is your morph’s physical health (or
structural integrity in the case of synthetic shells, or
system integrity in the case of infomorphs). It deter-
mines the amount of damage your morph can take
before you are incapacitated or killed (see Physical
Health, p. 206).

Durability is unlimited, though the range for base-
line (unmodified) humans tends to fall between 20 and
60. Your Durability stat is determined by your morph.


WOUND THRESHOLD (WT)


A Wound Threshold is used to determine if you
receive a wound each time you take physical damage
(see Physical Health, p. 206). The higher the Wound
Threshold, the more resistant to serious injury you are.

Wound Threshold is calculated by dividing
Durability by 5 (rounding up).


DEATH RATING (DR)


Death Rating is the total amount of damage your

morph can take before it is killed or destroyed beyond

repair. Death Rating is equal to DUR x 1.5 for bio-
= morphs and DUR x 2 for synthmorphs.


Tyska is sleeved in a run-of-the-mill splicer morph
with a Durability of 30. That gives him a Wound
Threshold of 6 (30 + 5) and a Death Rating of
45 (30 x 1.5). If Tyska acquired an implant that
boosted his Durability by +10 to 40, his Wound
Threshold would be 8 (40 + 5) and his Death
Rating would be 60 (40 x 1.5).














SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL = J


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS








ACCELERATED FUTURE
GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


rH





LUCIDITY (LUC)


Lucidity is similar to Durability, except that it measures
mental health and state of mind rather than physical
well-being. Your Lucidity determines how much stress
(mental damage) you can take before you are incapaci-
tated or driven insane (see Mental Health, p. 209).
Lucidity is unlimited, but generally ranges from
20 to 60 for baseline unmodified humans. Lucidity is
determined by your Willpower aptitude x 2.


TRAUMA THRESHOLD (TT)


The Trauma Threshold determines if you suffer a
trauma (mental wound) each time you take stress (see
Mental Health, p. 209). A higher Trauma Threshold
means that your mental state is more resilient against
experiences that might inflict psychiatric disorders or
other serious mental instabilities.

Trauma Threshold is calculated by dividing Lucidity
by 5 (rounding up).


INSANITY RATING CR)


Your Insanity Rating is the total amount of stress your
mind can take before you go permanently insane and
are lost for good. Insanity Rating equals LUC x 2.


Cole's Willpower is 16. That makes his Lucidity
stat 32 (16 x 2), his Trauma Threshold 7 (32 ~ 5,
rounded up), and his Insanity Rating 64 (32 x 2)





MORIE


Moxie represents your character’s inherent talent at
facing down challenges and overcoming obstacles
with spirited fervor. More than just luck, Moxie is
your character’s ability to run the edge and do what
it takes, no matter the odds. Some people consider it
the evolutionary trait that spurred humankind to pick
up tools, expand our brains, and face the future head
on, leaving other mammals in the dust. When the sky
is falling, death is imminent, and no one can help you,
Moxie is what saves the day.

The Moxie stat is rated between 1 and 10, as pur-
chased during character creation (and perhaps raised
later). In game play, Moxie is used to influence the
odds in your favor. Every game session, your character
begins with a number of Moxie points equal to their
Moxie stat. Moxie points may be spent for any of the
following effects:


e The character may ignore all negative modifiers
that apply to a test. The Moxie point must be
spent before dice are rolled.

e The character may flip-flop a d100 roll result. For
example, an 83 would become a 38.

e The character may upgrade a success, making it
a critical success, as if they rolled doubles. The
character must succeed in the test before they
spend the Moxie point.


e The character may ignore a critical failure, treat-
ing it as a regular failure instead.

e The character may go first in an Action Phase
(pals)


Only 1 point of Moxie may be spent on a single roll.
Moxie points will fluctuate during gameplay, as they
are spent and sometimes regained.

Regaining Moxie: At the gamemaster’s discretion,
Moxie points may be refreshed up to the character’s
full Moxie stat any time the character rests for a sig-
nificant period. Moxie points may also be regained if
the character achieves a personal goal, as determined
by their Motivations (see p. 120). The gamemaster
determines how much Moxie is regained in propor-
tion to the goal achieved.


Audrey has a difficult Piloting: Aircraft roll to make.
Her skill is 61, but she’s facing a lot of modifiers
(-30), and if she fails she’s in big trouble. She
could spend a point of Moxie before the test to
ignore the modifiers, but she decides to take
her chances against the target number of 31.
Unfortunately, she rolls an 82. Luckily, she can
spend a Moxie point to flip-flop that roll and make
it a 28—a success!





DAMAGE BONUS


The Damage Bonus stat quantifies how much extra
oomph your character is able to give their melee and
thrown weapons attacks. Damage Bonus is deter-
mined by dividing your Somatics aptitude (see below)
by 10 and rounding down.


CHARACTER SRILLS


Skills represent your character’s talents. Skills are
broken down into aptitudes (ingrained abilities that
everyone has) and learned skills (abilities and knowl-
edge picked up over time). Skills determine the target
number used for tests (see Making Tests, p. 115).


HPTITUDES


Aptitudes are the core skills that every character has
by default. They are the foundation on which learned
skills are built. Aptitudes are purchased during char-
acter creation and rate between 1 and 30, with 10
being average for a baseline unmodified human. They
represent the ingrained characteristics and talents that
your character has developed from birth and stick
with you even when you change morphs—though
some morphs may modify your aptitude ratings.

Each learned skill is linked to an aptitude. If a char-
acter doesn’t have the skill necessary for a test, they
may default to the aptitude instead (see Defaulting:
Untrained Skill Use, p. 116).








ae








There are 7 aptitudes in Eclipse Phase:


e Cognition (COG) is your aptitude for problem-
solving, logical analysis, and understanding. It
also includes memory and recall.

e Coordination (COO) is your skill at integrat-
ing the actions of different parts of your morph
to produce smooth, successful movements. It
includes manual dexterity, fine motor control,
nimbleness, and balance.

e Intuition (INT) is your skill at following your
gut instincts and evaluating on the fly. It includes
physical awareness, cleverness, and cunning.

e Reflexes (REF) is your skill at acting quickly. This
encompasses your reaction time, your gut-level
response, and your ability to think fast.

e Savvy (SAV) is your mental adaptability, social
intuition, and proficiency for interacting
with others. It includes social awareness and
manipulation.

e Somatics (SOM) is your skill at pushing your
morph to the best of its physical ability, including
the fundamental utilization of the morph’s strength,
endurance, and sustained positioning and motion.

e Willpower (WIL) is your skill for self-control,
your ability to command your own destiny.


LEARMED SRILLS


Learned skills encompass a wide range of specialties
and education, from combat training to negotiating
to astrophysics (see Skill List, p. 176, for a complete
list). Learned skills range in rating from 1 to 99, with
an average proficiency being 50. Each learned skill is
linked to an aptitude, which represents the underly-
ing competency in which the skill is based. When a
learned skill is purchased (either during character
generation or advancement), it is bought starting at
the rating of the linked aptitude and then raised from
there. If the linked aptitude is raised or modified, all
skills built off it are modified appropriately as well.

Depending on your background and faction, you
may receive some starting skills for free during
character creation. Like aptitudes, learned skills stay
with the character even when they change morphs,
though certain morphs, implants, and other factors
may sometimes modify your skill rating. If you lack a
particular skill called for by a test, in most cases you
can default to the linked aptitude for the test ((see
Defaulting: Untrained Skill Use, p. 116)).


SPECIALIZATIONS


Specializations represent an area of concentration and
focus in a particular learned skill. A character who
learns a specialization is one who not only grasps the
basic tenets of that skill, but they have trained hard
to excel in one particular aspect of that skill’s field.
Specializations apply a +10 modifier when the charac-
ter utilizes that skill in the area of specialization.
Specializations may be purchased during char-
acter creation or advancement for any existing skill


ret 5





the character possesses with a rating of 30 or more.
Only one specialization may be purchased for each
skill. Specific possible specializations are noted under
individual the skill descriptions (see Complete Skill
leave joy, 17S):


Toljek has Palming skill of 63 with a specialization
in Pickpocketing. Whenever he uses Palming to
pick someone's pocket or otherwise steal from
someone's person, his target number is 73, but for
all other uses of Palming the standard 63 applies.


CHARACTER TRAITS


Traits include a range of inherent qualities and fea-





tures that help define your character. Some traits are
positive, in that they give your character a bonus to
certain stats, skills, or tests, or otherwise give them
an edge in certain situations. Others are negative, in
that they impair your abilities or occasionally create
a glitch in your plans. Some traits apply to a charac-
ter’s ego, staying with them from body to body, while
others only apply to a character’s morph.

Traits are purchased during character generation.
Positive traits cost customization points (CP), while
negative traits give you extra CP to spend on other
things (see Traits, p. 145). The maximum number of
CP you may spend on traits is 50, while the maximum
you may gain from negative traits is 50. In rare cir-
cumstances—and only with gamemaster approval—
traits may be purchased, bought off, or inflicted
during gameplay (see Gaining/Losing Traits, p. 153).


CHARACTER MORPH


In Eclipse Phase, your body is disposable. If your body
gets old, sick, or too heavily damaged, you can digitize
your consciousness and download it into a new body.
The process isn’t cheap or easy, but it offers effective
immortality—as long as you remember to back your-
self up and don’t go insane. The term morph is used to
describe any type of form your mind inhabits, whether
it be a vat-grown clone sleeve, a synthetic robotic shell,
a part-bio/part-flesh pod, or even the purely electronic
software state of an infomorph.

You purchase your starting morph during character
creation (see Starting Morphs, p. 139). This is likely
the morph you were born with (assuming you were
born), though it may simply be another morph you’ve
moved onto.

Physical looks aside, your morph has a large impact
on your characteristics. Your morph determines certain
physical stats, such as Durability and Wound Threshold,
and it may also influence Initiative and Speed. Morphs
may also modify some of your aptitudes and learned
skills. Some morphs come pre-loaded with specific
traits and implants, representing how it was crafted,
and you can always bling yourself out with more
implants if you choose (see Implants, p. 126). All of
these factors are noted in the individual morph
descriptions (see p. 139).











GAME MECHANICS


2



















SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL | "
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
ACTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE








If you plan on switching your current morph to
another during gameplay, you may first want to back
yourself up (see Backups and Uploading, p. 268).
Backing up regularly is always a smart option in case
you suffer an accidental or untimely death. Acquiring
a new morph is not always easy, especially if you
want it pre-loaded according to certain specifications.
The full process is detailed under Resleeving, p. 270.


APTITUDE MaRtMUuMs


Every morph has an aptitude maximum, sometimes
modified by traits. This maximum represents the
highest value at which the character may use that
aptitude while inhabiting that morph, reflecting an
inherent limitation in some morphs. If a character’s
aptitude (including any bonuses from that morph)
exceeds the aptitude maximum of their morph, they
must use it at the maximum value for the duration
of the time they remain in that morph. This may also
affect the skills linked to that aptitude, which must be
modified appropriately.

Some implants, gear, psi, and other factors may
modify a character’s natural aptitudes. These aug-
mented values may exceed a morph’s aptitude maxi-
mums, as they represent external factors boosting the
morph’s ability. No aptitude, however, augmented or
not, may ever exceed a value of 40. Innate ability only
takes a person so far—after that point, actual skill is
what counts.


Eva has a Cognition aptitude of 25. She is unfor-
tunately forced to sleeve into a flat morph with an
aptitude maximum of 20. For the duration of the
period she inhabits that morph, her Cognition is
reduced to 20, which also impacts all of her COG-
linked skills, reducing them by 5.





THINGS CHARACTERS USE


In the advanced technological setting of Eclipse Phase,
characters don’t get by on their wits and morphs
alone; they take advantage of their credit and reputa-
tion to acquire gear and implants and use their social
networks to gather information. Some characters also
have the capability to use mental powers known as psi.


IDENTITY


In an age of ubiquitous computing and omnipres-
ent surveillance, privacy is a thing of the past—who
you are and what you do is easily accessed online.
Characters in Eclipse Phase, however, are often
involved in secretive or less-than-legal activities, so
the way to keep the bloggers, news, paparazzi, and
law off your back is to make extensive use of fake IDs.
While Firewall often provides covers for its sentinel
agents, it doesn’t hurt to keep a few extra personas
in reserve, in case matters ever go out the airlock in
a hurry. Thankfully, the patchwork allegiances of
city-state habitats and faction stations means that
identities aren’t too difficult to fake, and the ability
to switch morphs makes it even easier. On the other











— - =


hand, anyone with a copy of your biometrics or gene-
print is going to have an edge tracking you down or
finding any forensic traces you leave behind (for more
on ID, see Identity, p. 279).


SUCTAL NETWORKS


Social networks represent people the character knows
and social groups with which they interact. These
contacts, friends, and acquaintances are not just main-
tained in person, but also through heavy Mesh contact.
Social software allows people to stay updated on what
the people they know are doing, where they are, and
what they are interested in, right up to the minute.
Social networks also incorporate the online projects
of individual members, whether it’s a mesh-site loaded





with a band member’s songs, a personal archive of
stored media, a decade of blog entries reviewing the
best places to score cheap electronics, or a depository
of research papers and studies someone has worked
on or finds interesting.

In game play, social networks are quite useful
to characters. Their friends list is an essential
resource—a pool of people you can actively poll for
ideas, troll for news, listen to for the latest rumors,
buy or sell gear from, hit up for expert advice, and
even ask for favors.

While a character’s social networks are nebulous
and constantly shifting, the use of them is not. A
character takes advantage of their social networks via
the Networking: [Field] skill, (p. 182). The exact use
of this skill is covered under Reputation and Social
Networks, p. 285.


CRED


The Fall devastated the global economies and cur-

rencies of the past. In the years of reconsolidation

that followed, the hypercorps and governments

inaugurated a new system-wide electronic monetary

system. Called credit, this currency is backed by all

of the large capitalist-oriented factions and is used to

trade for goods and services as well for other financial

\ transactions. Credit is mainly transferred electroni-

| cally, though certified credit chips are also common

~ (and favored for their anonymity). Hardcopy bills are
even used in some habitats.

Depending on your background or faction, your
character may be given an amount of credit at the
start of the game. During game play, your character
must earn credit the old-fashioned way: by earning
or stealing it.


REP


Capitalism is no longer the only economy in town.
The development of nanofabricators allowed for the
existence of post-scarcity economies, a fact eagerly
taken advantage of by anarchist factions and others.
When anyone can make anything, concepts like
property and wealth become irrelevant. The advent








of functional gift and communist economies, among
other alternative economic models, means that in
such systems you can acquire any goods or services
you need via free exchange, reciprocity, or barter—
presuming you are a contributing member of such
a system and respected by your peers. Likewise, art,
creativity, innovation, and various forms of cultural
expression have a much higher worth than they do in
capitalist economies.

In alternative economies, money is often meaning-
less, but reputation matters. Your reputation score
represents your social capital—how esteemed you
are to your peers. Rep can be increased by positively
influencing, contributing to, or helping individuals or
groups, and it can be decreased through antisocial
behavior. In anarchist habitats, your likelihood of
obtaining things that you need is entirely based on
how you are viewed by others.

Reputation is easily measured by one of several
online social networks. Your actions are rewarded
or punished by those with whom you interact, who
can ping your Rep score with positive or negative
feedback. These networks are used by all of the fac-
tions, as reputation can affect your social activities in
capitalist economies as well. The primary reputation
networks include:


e The @-list: the Circle-A list for anarchists,
Barsoomians, Extropians, scum, and Titanians,
noted as @-rep.

e CivicNet: used by the Jovian Republic, Lunar-
Lagrange Alliance, Morningstar Constellation,
Planetary Consortium, and many hypercorps,
referred to as c-rep.

e EcoWave: used by nano-ecologists, preservation-
ists, and reclaimers, referred to as e-rep.

e Fame: the seen-and-be-seen network used by
socialites, artists, glitterati, and media, referred
to as f-rep.

e Guanxi: used by the triads and numerous crimi-
nal entities, referred to as g-rep.

e The Eye: used by Firewall, noted as i-rep.

e RNA: Research Network Affiliation, used by
argonauts, technologists, scientists, and research-
ers, referred to as r-rep.


Reputation is rated from 0-99. Depending on
your background and faction, you may start with
a Rep score in one or more networks. This can be
bolstered through spending customization points
during character creation. During game play, your
Rep scores will depend entirely on your character’s
actions. For more information, see Reputation and
Social Networks, p. 285.

Note that each Rep score is tied to a particular
identity.









GAME MECHANICS


2



















—$—$—<—_— se ee _
: ——— ————— —— oa —_——


a — =


DEAR


Gear is all of the equipment your character owns





Z|
a


and keeps on their person, from weapons and
armor to clothing and electronics. You buy gear for
your character with customization points during
character creation (see Purchase Gear, p. 137) and
in the game with Credit or Rep. Certain restricted,
illegal, or hard-to-find items may require special
efforts to obtain (see Acquiring Gear, p. 296). If
you have access to a nanofabricator, you may be
able to simply build gear, presuming you have the
proper blueprints (see Nanofabrication, p. 284).
For a complete listing of equipment options, see the
Gear chapter, starting on p. 296)

Even among the remaining capitalist economies,
prices can vary drastically. To represent this, all
gear falls into a cost category. Each category defines
a range of costs, so the gamemaster can adjust the
prices of individual items as appropriate to the situa-
tion. Each category also lists an average price for that
category, which is used during character generation
and any time the gamemaster wants to keep costs
simple. See the Gear Costs table on p. 137


IMPLANTS


Implants include cybernetic, bionic, genetech, and
nanoware enhancements to your character’s morph
(or mechanical enhancements in the case of a syn-
thetic shell). These implants may give your character
special abilities or modify their stats, skills, or traits.
Some morphs come pre-equipped with implants, as
noted in their descriptions (see p. 139). You may
also special-order morphs with specific implants (see
Morph Acquisition, p. 277). If you want to upgrade
a morph you are already in, you can undergo
surgery or other treatments to have an enhancement





installed (see Healing Vats, p. 327.) For a complete
list of available implant/enhancement options, see
pp. 300-312, Gear.


Ny


Psi is a rare and anomalous set of mental abilities that
are acquired due to infection by a strange nanovirus
released during the Fall. Psi abilities are not completely
understood, but they give characters certain advan-
tages—as well as some disadvantages. A character
requires the Psi trait (p. 147) to use psi abilities, which
are called sleights. Psi users are called asyncs. A full
explanation of psi and details on the various sleights
can be found in the Mind Hacks chapter, p. 220











MAKING TESTS, (P. 115)


dm Xo) | eM AOLOM GanVomcclabcy(e(-1emel(a-F read as a percentile
amount, from 00 to 99). =——


e Target nt number i ikwel=ii=1aaallal=yem o)Vandal=m-]e)e)ae)e)ar-ie Kill
a (ol arelaet-\s leat ally ana felanavre(-)F





SSS
° Difficulty is represented by modifiers.
© 00 is always a success.


e 99 is always a failure.

° Margin of Success of 30+ is an Excellent Success.

¢ Margin of Failure of 30+ is a Severe Failure.

ay -Nage) || of douk les ( 0, 11, 22, 33, etc.) equals a critical
SUCCESS O —_=












= ™~ Y -_——™ 1 |
> 1 @ | ITAdl


ee


SUCCESS TESTS, (P. 117) — =
© To succeed, ro | d100 and score equal to or less than
the skill +/- modifiers.

































5S TESTS, (P. 118)
sts automatically succeed.


lure on the roll simply indicates if the
ttTo[-To 1d gelato] \Vmelan Lele] ahyZ


>. 116)
not have the appropriate skill for a
It to the skill’s linked aptitude.


ctt e target number (skill), not
U = — se





Ma irexelnit-tan (ekessheiz-MelamatcteF-leiz-) Recleal-Wlabem (-\7-) eh)
severity: -

-™@ Minor (+/-10)

‘m@ Moderate (+/-20)


a i" C'
1eE MAY! Nn alee | veyel
~ au j






tid
-* — oa


SPECIALIZATIONS, (P. 123)










= =


e Character may take extra time to complet








te an action.


tO) al eo) nnle) (=>. ar-(adiel aly =y-leamanlialeic-me-] <-lam-lele- we Ee mae)


the test.





LEARNED SKILLS, (P. 123) — 3
° Skills range from 1-99 (averag mo\0) F =
e Each skill is linked to and ib elsio1e melas lame] elainele(=s 7


dm \Vi Cold ol aye l=t-leme lau le ny etc. may provide skill bonuses or
penalties to individual skills. -






—- :
as) o-celf-] |P2-h alo) atw-le (emma LOMVal-lameciialem- me) qi) mcolandar-it


Elast-melmae)ala-laide-1de)ap
e Each skill may have only one specialization.


Sci TURNS, (P. 119) ==
e Action Turns are 3 seconds in length.
¢ The order in which characters act is determined by =

Initiative. | =
e Automatic actions are always “on


e Characters may take any number of Quick Actions in a
WUUraom(oalialianlelaameyme) ru liealin-teme)al hae) meal-mel-leal-)eat-Cicse


e Characters may only take a number of Complex —
Actions equal to their Speed stat.


TASK ACTIONS, (P. 120)


e Task Actions are any action that requires longer than
sy -Neid(o)amm iUidammkemae)eale)(-1K-y


e Task Actions list a timeframe (anywhere from 2 Turns
to 2 years). = SS





e Timeframe reduced by 10% for each 10 BRiniis-c of MoS.


e If character fails, they work onthetask fora ss
faavialiaalelaam ol-)alecem te [Ur-) mxeomm LO h/moy im dali diea(-sie-)00(-05 ce) aa
each 10 points of MoF before realizing it’s a failure.


eee


BEORE YOU START. .


Many of the concepts in this chapter are described in the previous chapter. Unless
you have someone to help you through character creation, you'll probably want to
read Chapter 4: Game Mechanics first, or be prepared to flip back-and-forth with
it as you make your first character.





This overview of character creation should be referred to as
you work your way through the creation process. @ p. 130








Background: Choose or create your
background—where you came from, not
where you're going! M@ p. 131


~ Factions: The group of people
with which you associate and
identify. Ml p. 132


~ Motivations: Choosee 3 memes,
ideologies, or goals that drive your
character. Ml pp. 138


Example: A sample character, built start to


finish. @ p. 135 and 137








LAV LES





A complete list of positive and negative qualities for
your character's ego or morph. ™@ p. 145


MORPHS


Choose your body from one of 29 available
o)(o) Cole Cer) Wr-)ale M\VZaluat-ae(ome) oneCo)acrmlar@lUellaremunteelialcxe,








transhumans, pods, uplifts, robotic shells, and even
virtual infomorphs.
Mp. 139


CHARACTER ADVANCEMENT


As your character accomplishes their goals, they'll gain Rez
points that can be spent to improve skills, aptitudes, and other
characteristics! Ml p. 152








eS eo’ ,


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SC HES
ACTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS
THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE















The first step towards playing Eclipse Phase is to
define your character. If you’re new to the game and
setting, the easiest way to jump right in is to simply
select one of the Sample Characters provided on
pp. 154-160. If you’re more familiar with RPGs, or
you simply want finer control over your character,
you can build them from scratch, perhaps using one
of the Sample Characters as a template. This chapter
will walk you through the process of character genera-
tion, from the general concept and personality to the
crunchy game statistics.


There are two parts to every player character. The
first is the sets of numbers and attributes that define
what a character is good or bad at (or even what they
can and can’t do) according to the game mechanics.
These are more than just statistics, however—these
characteristics help to define your character’s abili-
ties and interests and by extension their background,
education, training, and experience. During the
character creation process, you will have the ability
to assign, adjust, and juggle these characteristics as
you like. If you have a pre-conceived notion of what
the character is about, you can optimize the stats to
reflect that. Alternatively, you can tweak the stats until
you get something you like, then base the character’s
backstory off of what you develop.

The second part to every player character is their
personality. What defines them as a person? What
makes them tick? What pisses them off? What sparks
their interest? What positive aspects of their person-
ality make them appealing as a friend, comrade, or
lover—or at least someone interesting to play? What
character flaws and quirks do they have? These ques-
tions matter because they will also guide you as you
assign stats, skills, and traits.

Character generation is a step-by-step process.
Unlike some games, the process for creating an
Eclipse Phase character is not random—you have
complete control over every aspect of your charac-
ter’s design. Some stages must be completed before
you can move on to others. The complete process is
broken down on the Step-By-Step Guide to Character
Creation sidebar.


CHARACTER CONCEPT


Deciding what/who you want to play before you make
the character is usually the best route. Pick a simple
archetype that fits your character and work from there.
Do you want to play an explorer? Someone sneaky,
like a spy or thief? Someone cerebral, like a scientist?
A hardened criminal or ex-cop? Or do you prefer to
be a rabble-rousing agitator? You can also start with a





ees || |





personality type and choose an associated profession. If
you want a social butterfly who excels at manipulating
people, you can play a media personality, blogger, or
party-going socialite. Perhaps you’d prefer a bottomed-
out reject with substance abuse problems, in which
case an ex-merc or former hypercapitalist who lost
their fortune and family during the Fall might fit. How
about an energetic, live-life-to-the-fullest, must-see-it-
all character? Then a habitat freerunner or professional
gatecrasher might be what you’re looking for.

Make sure to check in with the other players and
try to create a character that’s complementary to the
rest of the team—preferably one who provides some
skill-set the group lacks. Why create a research arche-
ologist if someone else is already set on playing one,
especially when the team lacks a good combat special-
ist or async? On the other hand, if your team is going
to be running an alien archeological expedition, then
having more than one researcher (each with distinct
areas of expertise) might not be bad.

Once you have the basic concept, try to fill it in
with a few more details, making it into a one-sentence










summary. If you started with the concept of “xeno-
sociologist,” expand it to “open-minded amateur
linguist and expert xenosociologist who is fascinated
by alien cultures, collects Factor kitsch, has a high tol-
erance for ‘yuck factors, and whose best friends tend
to be uplifts and Als.” This will give you a few more
details around which you can focus the character’s
strengths and weaknesses.


CHOOSE BACKGROUND


The first step to creating your character is to choose a
background. Was your character born on Earth before
the Fall? Were they raised on a habitat commune? Or
did they start existence as a disembodied AI?

You must choose one of the backgrounds for your





character from the list below. Choose wisely, as each
background may provide your character with certain
skills, traits, limitations, or other characteristics to
start with. Keep in mind that your background is
where you came from, not who you are now. It is
the past, whereas your faction represents whom your
character is currently aligned with. Your future, of
course, is yours to make.

The background options presented below cover
a wide selection of transhumanity, but they cannot
cover every possibility. If your gamemaster allows it,
you may work with them to develop a background
that is not included on this list, using these as guide-
lines to keep it balanced.


DRIFTER


You were raised with a social grouping that remained
on the move throughout the Sol system. This could
have been free traders, pirates, asteroid farmers,
scavengers, or just migrant workers. You are used to
roaming space travel between habitats and stations.
Advantages: +10 Navigation skill, +20 Pilot: Spacecraft
skill, +10 Networking: [Field] skill of your choice
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All, especially Bouncers and
Hibernoids


Ss) FALL EVACUEE


You were born and raised on Earth and evacuated

during the horrors of the Fall, leaving your old life

(and possibly your friends, family, and loved ones)

behind you. You were lucky enough to survive with

your body intact and continue to make a life for your-

self out in the system.

Advantages: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft skill, +10
Networking: [Field] skill of your choice, +1 Moxie

Disadvantages: Only 2,500 Starting Credit (can still
buy credit with CP)

Common Morphs: Flats, Splicers


HUPERELITE


You are privileged to have been raised as part of the
immortal upper class that rules many inner system
habitats and hypercorps. You were pampered with
















wealth and influence that most people can only

dream of.

Advantages: +10 Protocol skill, +10,000 Credit, +20
Networking: Hypercorps skill

Disadvantages: May not start with flat, splicer, or any
pod, uplift, or synthetic morphs

Common Morphs: Exalts, Sylphs


INFOLIFE


You entered existence as a digital consciousness—
an artificial general intelligence (AGI). Your very
existence is illegal in certain habitats (a legacy of
those who place the Fall at the feet of rampant Als).
Unlike the seed Als responsible for their Fall, your
capacity for self-improvement is limited, though you
do have full autonomy.

Advantages: +30 Interfacing skill, Computer skills
(Infosec, Interfacing, Programming, Research)
bought with Customization Points are half price

Disadvantages: Real World Naiveté trait, Social Stigma
(AGI) trait, Social skills bought with Customization
Points are double price

Common Morphs: Infomorphs, synthetic morphs


ISOLATE


You were raised as part of a self-exiled grouping on
the fringes of the system. Whether raised as part of
a religious group, cult, social experiment, anti-tech
cell, or a group that just wanted to be isolated, you
spent most if not all of your upbringing isolated
from other factions.

Advantages: +20 to two skills of your choice
Disadvantages: —10 starting Rep

Common Morphs: All


LOST


You are a legacy of one of the most infamous debacles


since the Fall. As a member of the “Lost generation,”


you went through an accelerated-growth childhood,

somehow surviving where others of your kind died,

went insane, or were persecuted (see The Lost, p. 233).

Your background is a social stigma, but it does provide

you with certain advantages ... and burdens.

Advantages: +20 to two Knowledge skills of your
choice, Psi trait (Level 1)

Disadvantages: Mental Disorder (choose two, this
includes the one from Psi) trait, Social Stigma (Lost)
trait, must start with Futura morph

Common Morphs: Futuras


LUNAR COLOMST


You experienced your childhood in one of the cramped

dome cities or underground stations on Luna, Earth’s

moon. You had a ringside seat to the Fall of Earth.

Advantages: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft skill, +10 to one
Technical, Academic: [Field], or Profession: [Field] skill
of your choice, +20 Networking: Hypercorps skill

Disadvantages: None

Common Morphs: Flats, Splicers







a
a
—————S=—————_—








Pm CHARACTER CREATION


131

















SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL |
A TIME OF ECLIPSE


CHARACTER CREATION
—


i


























MARTIAN


You were raised in a station on or above Mars, now

the most populated planet in the system. Your home

town may or may not have survived the Fall.

Advantages: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft skill, +10 to
one Technical, Academic: [Field], or Profession:
[Field] skill of your choice, +20 Networking:
Hypercorps skill

Disadvantages: None

Common Morphs: Flats, Splicers, and Rusters


ORIGINAL SPACE COLONIST


You or your parents were part of the first “generations”
of colonists/workers sent out from Earth to stake a
claim in space, so you are familiar with the cramped
confines of spaceflight and life aboard older stations
and habitats. As a “zero-one g” (zero-gravity, first-
gen), you were never part of the elite. People from
your background typically have some sort of special-
ized tech training as vacworkers or habtechs.
Advantages: +10 Pilot: Spacecraft or Freefall skill,
+10 to a Technical, Academic: [Field], or Profession:
[Field] skill of your choice, +20 to a Networking:
[Field] skill of your choice
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All. Use of exotic morphs is common


RE-INSTANTIATED


You were born and raised on Earth, but you did not
survive the Fall. All that you know is that your body
died there, but your backup was transmitted offworld,
and you were one of the lucky few to be re-instantiated
with a new morph. You may have spent years in dead
storage, simulspace, or as an infomorph slave.
Advantages: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft skill, +10 to a
Networking: [Field] skill of your choice, +2 Moxie
Disadvantages: Edited Memories trait, 0 Starting
Credit (can still buy credit with CP)
Common Morphs: Cases, Infomorphs, Synths


SCUMBORM


You were raised in the nomadic and chaotic lifestyle

common to scum barges.

Advantages: +10 Persuasion or Deception skill, +10
Scrounging skill, +20 Networking: Autonomists skill

Disadvantages: None

Common Morphs: All, especially Bouncers


UPLIFT


You are not even human. You were born as an uplifted

animal: chimpanzee, gorilla, orangutan, parrot, raven,

crow, or octopus.

Advantages: +10 Fray skill, +10 Perception skill, +20
to two Knowledge skills of your choice

Disadvantages: Must choose an uplift morph to start

Common Morphs: Neo-Avian, Neo-Hominid,
Octomorph


CHOOSE FACTION


After choosing your background, you now choose
which primary faction your character belongs to.
This faction most likely represents the grouping that
controls your character’s current home habitat/station,
and to which your character holds allegiance, but this
need not be the case. You may be a dissident member
of your faction, living among them but opposing some
(or all) of their core memes and perhaps agitating for
change. Whatever the case, your faction defines how
your character represents themself in the struggle
between ideologies post-Fall.

You must choose one of the factions listed below.
Like your character’s background, it will provide your
character with certain skills, traits, limitations, or
other characteristics.

The factions presented here outline the most numer-
ous and influential among transhumanity, but others
may also exist. At your gamemaster’s discretion, you
may develop another starting faction with them not
included on this list.


ANARCHIST


You are opposed to hierarchy, favoring flat forms of
social organization and directly democratic decision-
making. You believe power is always corrupting and
everyone should have a say in the decisions that affect
their lives. According to the primitive and restrictive
policies of the inner system and Jovian Junta, this
makes you an irresponsible hoodlum at best and a ter-
rorist at worst. In your opinion, that’s comedy coming
from governments that keep their populations in line
with economic oppression and threats of violence.
Advantages: +10 to a skill of your choice, +30
Networking: Autonomists skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All


ARGONAUT


You are part of a scientific technoprogressive move-
ment that seeks to solve transhumanity’s injustices and
inequalities with technology. You support universal
access to technology and healthcare, open-source
models of production, morphological freedom, and
democratization. You try to avoid factionalism and
divisive politics, seeing transhumanity’s splintering as
a hindrance to its perpetuation.

Advantages: +10 to two Technical, Academic: [Field],
or Profession: [Field] skills; +20 Networking:
Scientists

Disadvantages: None

Common Morphs: All











SS ————eEEEE————








BARSOOMIAN


You call the Martian outback and wilds your home. You are a

“redneck,” a lower-class Martian from the rural areas that often

find themselves in conflict with the policies and goals of the hyper-

corp domes and Tharsis League.

Advantages: +10 Freerunning, +10 to one skill of your choice, +20
Networking: Autonomists skill

Disadvantages: None

Common Morphs: Cases, Flats, Rusters, Splicers, Synths


BRINKER


You or your faction is reluctant to deal with the rest of the trans-
humanity and the various goings-on in the rest of the system. Your
particular grouping may have sought out self-imposed isolation to
pursue their own interests, or they may have been exiled for their
unpopular beliefs. Or you may simply be a loner who prefers the
vast emptiness of space to socializing with others. You might be a
religious cultist, a primitivist, a utopian, or something altogether
uninterested in transhumanity.

Advantages: +10 Pilot: Spacecraft skill, +10 to a skill of your choice,
+20 to a Networking: [Field] skill of your choice

Disadvantages: None

Common Morphs: All


CRIMINAL


You are involved with the crime-oriented underworld. You may
work with one of the Sol system’s major criminal factions—triads,
the Night Cartel, the ID Crew, Nine Lives, Pax Familae—or one
of the smaller, local operators with a big stake in a specific habitat.
You might be a vetted member-for-life, a reluctant recruit, or just a
freelancer looking for the next gig.

Advantages: +10 Intimidation skill, +30 Networking: Criminal skill
Disadvantages: None

Common Morphs: All


EAT ROPIAN


You are an anarchistic supporter of the free market and private

property. You oppose government and favor a system where secu-

rity and legal matters are handled by private competitors. Whether

you consider yourself an anarcho-capitalist or a mutualist (a differ-

ence only other Extropians can figure out), you occupy a middle

ground between the hypercorps and autonomists, dealing with

both and yet trusted by neither.

Advantages: +10 Persuasion skill, +20 Networking: Autonomists
skill, +10 Networking: Hypercorps skill

Disadvantages: None

Common Morphs: All


HUPERCORP


You hail from a habitat controlled by the hypercorps. You might

be a hypercapitalist entrepeneur, a hedonistic socialite, or a lowly

vacworker, but you accept that certain liberties must be sacrificed

for security and freedom.

Advantages: +10 Protocol skill, +20 Networking: Hypercorps skill,
+10 to any Networking: [Field] skill

Disadvantages: None

Common Morphs: Exalts, Olympians, Splicers, Sylphs








—
=
—
<—c
[Ll
oc
C5
oc
Lj
—
ae)
_
==
<—c
==
a5


=
Ls)
Lo)











<=>


CHARACTER CREATION


—











GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


i





JOVIAN


Your faction is noted for its authoritarian regime,
bioconservative ideologies, and militaristic tendencies.
Where you come from, technology is not to be trusted
and humans need to be protected from themselves. To
ensure its survival, humanity must be able to defend
itself and unfettered growth must be checked.
Advantages: +10 to two weapon skills of your choice,

+10 Fray, +20 Networking: Hypercorps skill
Disadvantages: Must start with a Flat or Splicer morph,

may not start with any nanoware/advanced nanotech
Common Morphs: Flats and Splicers


LUNAR


You hail from Luna, the original off-Earth colony
world. Now overpopulated and in decline, Luna is
one of the few places where people still cling to old-
Earth ethnic and national identities. Your home is also
within sight of Earth, a constant reminder that encour-
ages many “Loonies” to be reclaimers, deploring the
hypercorp interdiction and arguing that you have a
right to return to Earth, terraform it, and re-establish
it as a living homeworld.

Advantages: +10 to one Language: [Field] of your
choice, +20 Networking: Hypercorps skill, +10
Networking: Ecologists skill

Disadvantages: None

Common Morphs: Cases, Exalts, Flats, Splicers, Synths


MERCURIAL


Your faction has no interest in co-opting their true
natures in order to become more “human.” You might
be an AGI that does not necessarily intertwine its
destiny with transhumanity or an uplift that seeks
to preserve and promote non-human life (or at least
your own species). You might even be an infomorph or
posthuman who has strayed so far from transhuman
interests and values that you now consider yourself to
be forging a unique new path of life.

Advantages: +10 to any two skills of your choice, +20

to a Networking: [Field] skill of your choice

Disadvantages: None

Common Morphs: Infomorphs, Synths, uplift morphs


SCUMM


This is the future we’ve all been waiting for, and
you’re going to enjoy it to the max. A paradigm shift
has occurred, and while everyone else is catching up,
your faction embraces and revels in it. There is no
more want, no more death, no more limits on what
you can be. The scum have immersed themselves in
a new way of life, changing themselves as they see fit,
trying out new experiences, and pushing the boundar-
ies wherever they can ... and fuck anyone who can’t
deal with that.
Advantages: +10 Freefall skill, +10 to a skill of your
choice, +20 Networking: Autonomists skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All


SOCIALITE


You are a member of the inner system glitterati, the

media-saturated social cliques that set trends, spread

memes, and make or break lives with whispers, innu-

endo, and backroom deals. You are simultaneously an

icon and a devout follower. Culture isn’t just your life,

it’s your weapon of choice.

Advantages: +10 Persuasion skill, +10 Protocol skill,
+20 Networking: Media skill

Disadvantages: May not start with flat, pod, uplift, or
synthetic morphs

Common Morphs: Exalts, Olympians, Sylphs


TITANIA


You are a participant in the Titanian Commonwealth’s
socialist cyberdemocracy. Unlike other autonomist proj-
ects, Titanian joint efforts have assembled some impres-
sive infrastructural projects as approved by the Titanian
Plurality and pursued by state-owned microcorps.
Advantages: +10 to two Technical or Academic skills
of your choice, +20 Networking: Autonomists skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All


ULTIMATE


Your faction sees the potential in transhumanity’s
future and looks back upon the rest of transhumanity
as weak and hedonistic. Transhumanity is set to take
the next evolutionary step and it’s time for transhu-
mans to be redesigned to the best of our capabilities.
Advantages: +10 to two skills of your choice, +20 to a
Networking: [Field] skill of your choice
Disadvantages: May not start with Flat, Splicer, uplift,
or pod morphs
Common Morphs: Exalts, Remades


VENUSIAN


You are a supporter of the Morningstar Confederation
of Venusian aerostats, resentful of the growing
influence of the Planetary Consortium and other
entrenched and conservative inner system powers.
You see your faction’s ascension as a chance to reform
the old guard ways of inner system politics.
Advantages: +10 Pilot: Aircraft, +10 to one skill of
your choice, +20 Networking: Hypercorps skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: Cases, Exalts, Mentons, Splicers,
Sylphs, Synths


SPEND FREE POINTS


Each starting character receives an equal number of
free points for things like rep and aptitudes. These
free points are just the start for building your charac-
ter, so don’t fret if you can’t get certain scores as high
as you like. In the next stage of character creation,
you will gain additional points with which you can
customize your character (see Spend Customization
R@t?iS, ext pace):










2 a : : ee





















WIL to 10. She also wants to be smart and fast on her
feet, so takes the extra 10 points that gives her and
raises both COG and REF to 20. So her aptitudes are:


Tai is making a character. She decides to create a
salvage retrieval/scavenger type who started as a Lunar
Colonist but is now a Brinker. Together, her background


and faction give Tai +20 Networking: Autonomists skill,
+20 Networking: Hypercorps skill, +10 Pilot: Spacecraft
skill, and +10 Pilot: Groundcraft skill. She also has
+10 to two other skills (one Academic, Professional, or
Technical) that she'll choose later.

Tai starts with 105 points for aptitudes, which works
out to 15 each. She wants her character to be impulsive
and antisocial, so right away she lowers both SAV and





STARTING APTITUDES


Your character receives 105 free points to distribute





among their 7 aptitudes: Cognition, Coordination,
Intuition, Reflexes, Savvy, Somatics, and Willpower
(see Aptitudes, p. 122). (That breaks down to an
average of 15 per aptitude, so it may be easiest to give
each 15 and then adjust accordingly, raising some and
lowering others.) Each aptitude must be given at least
5 points (unless you take the Feeble trait, p. 149), and
no aptitude may be raised higher than 30 (unless you
take the Exceptional Aptitude trait, see p. 146). Note
that certain morphs (flats and splicers, for example)
may also put a cap on how high you can raise your
aptitudes (see Aptitude Maximums, p. 124).

For simplicity, it is recommended that aptitude scores
be handled as multiples of 5, but this is not a necessity.


NATIVE TONGUE

Every character receives their natural Language skill
at a rating of 70 + INT for free. This skill may be
raised with CP (see below).


STARTING MOnIE


Every character starts off with a Moxie stat of 1 (see
Moxie, p. 122).


CREDIT


All characters are given 5,000 credits with which

“. to purchase gear during character creation, unless
you have the Fall Evacuee or Re-instantiated back-
ground (in which case you start with 2,500 or 0
credits, respectively). See Purchase Gear, p. 137, for
more details.


REP


Your character isn’t a complete newbie. You get 50


rep points to divide between the reputation net- —™


works of your choice (see Reputation and Social
Networks, p. 285).


SPEND CUSTOMIZATION POINTS


Now that you have the basics of your character
fleshed out, you can spend additional Customization
Points (CP) to fine-tune your character. Each charac-
ter is given 1,000 CP, which may be used to increase


COG COO INT REF SAV SOM WIL


language (Chinese) at 85, both for free.


points evenly among @-rep and c-rep, taking 25 in each.


| | 1 CP = 1 skill point (up to 60)












20 1D 12 20 10 ile 10


Id NVX4


She marks down her Moxie of 1 and gets her native


Noting her 5,000 Credits, Tai divides her Rep score







Example continued on p. 137 =


aptitudes, buy skills, acquire more Moxie, buy more
credit, elevate your Rep, or purchase positive traits.
You may also take on negative traits in order to get
even more CP with which to customize your char-
acter. This customization process should be used to
tweak your character and specialize them in the ways a
you desire. ~

If a gamemaster seeks a different level of gameplay, tee
they can adjust this CP amount. If the gamemaster Wy
wants a scenario where the starting characters are \
younger or less experienced, they can lower the CP \
to 800 or even 700. On the other hand, if you want :
to create characters who start off as grizzled veterans,
you can raise the CP to 1,100 or even 1,200.

Not all customizations are equal—aptitudes, for
example, are considerably more valuable than indi-
vidual skills. To reflect this, CP must be spent at a
specific ratio according to the specific boost desired.


CUSTOMIZATION POINTS


15 CP = 1 Moxie point
_2 P= 1 skill point (61-80)


1 CP = 1.000 credit


Cr Gikep


Trait and morph costs vary as noted.


CUSTOMIZING APTITUDES


Raising your aptitude score is quite expensive at 10
CP per aptitude point. As noted above, no aptitude
may be increased above 30. Keep in mind that your
morph may also provide certain aptitude bonuses.


INCRERSING MOnIE


Moxie may be raised at the cost of 15 CP per Moxie
point. The maximum to which Moxie may be raised
1s° LO:


m— CHARACTER CREATION


135





SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE





GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SC HES


GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE


y= (











LEARNED SKILLS

Each character must purchase a minimum of 400
CP of Active skills and 300 CP of Knowledge skills
(see Skills, 2). Skills are bought at the cost of 1 CP
per point. Keep in mind that learned skills start at the
rating of the linked aptitude. For example, if you want
to raise a skill to 30 and the skill’s linked aptitude
is 10, you’ll need to spend 20 CP. Skill bonuses from
background or faction should also be applied to the
rating before you start raising the skill. For simplicity,
it is recommended that skills be purchased as mul-
tiples of 5, but this is not a necessity.

Raising a skill over 60 is expensive. Each point over
60 costs double. Raising a skill with a linked attribute
of 20 up to 70 would cost 60 CP: 40 points to get from
20 to 60, and 20 more points to get from 60 to 70.

No learned skill may be raised over 80 during char-
acter creation (unless you have the Expert trait, p. 146).

Though Knowledge skills are grouped into 5 skills,
each is a Field skill, (p. 172), meaning that it can be
taken multiple times with different fields.

A complete list of skills can be found on p. 176.


SPECIALIZATIONS


Specializations, (p. 173) may also be purchased at the
cost of 5 CP per specialization. You may purchase spe-
cializations for both Active and Knowledge skills. Only
1 specialization may be purchased per skill, and they
may only be bought for skills with a rating of 30+.


BUYING MORE CREDIT


If you want more cred to spend on gear, every CP will
get you 1,000 credits. See Purchase Gear, p. 137, for
details on buying stuff. The maximum CP you can
spend on additional credits is 100.


INCREASING REP


If you want your character to start play with lots of
social capital, you can increase your Rep score(s) at the
cost of 1 CP per 10 additional points. No individual
Rep score may be raised above 80, and the maximum
amount of CP that may be spent on Rep is 35 points.


STARTING MORPH


Perhaps the most important use of CP is to buy the
morph with which your character begins play. This
may be the original bodily form in which your charac-
ter started life or it may simply be the sleeve they are
currently inhabiting.

Available morphs are listed starting on p. 139

Note that any aptitude or skill bonuses provided by
the morph are applied after all CP are spent. In other
words, these bonuses do not affect the costs of buying
aptitude and skill points during character generation.
No aptitude may be modified over 40.


PURCHASING TRAITS


Traits represent specific qualities your character has
that may help or hinder them.

Positive traits supply bonuses in certain situations,
and each has a listed CP cost. You may not spend
more than 50 CP on positive traits.

Negative traits inflict disadvantages on your char-
acter, but they also give you extra CP that you can
spend on customizing your character. You may not
purchase more than 50 CP worth of negative traits,
and no more than 25 CP may be negative morph traits
(no matter how many morphs you buy).

Positive traits are listed on p. 145, negative traits
are listed on p. 148. Note that traits you receive from
your background or faction do not cost or provide you
with bonus CP.

Traits listed as morph traits apply to the morph and
not the ego. If the character switches to a new morph,
these traits are lost (and new morph traits may be
gained). Morph traits may be bought like other traits
during character generation.


Dl SLEIGHTS


Characters who purchase the Psi trait, (p. 147) may
spend CP to purchase sleights (see Psi-Chi Sleights,
p. 223). These represent specific psi abilities the char-
acter has learned. The cost to buy a sleight is 5 CP. No
more than 5 psi-chi and 5 psi-gamma sleights may be
bought during character creation.


a a a es oS | ET be


en eu, Example olaidialet-voMigelii mem ici am ——


Tai now has 1,000 points to customize. She wants to be
lucky, so she starts right off spending 60 (4 x 15) CP to raise
her Moxie from 1 to 5. She also decides that she wants her
character to be better at spotting things, so she raises her
INT from 15 to 20, at a cost of 50 CP (5 x 10). So far, she’s


spent 110 CP.


She must buy at least 400 points of Active skills, so she
tackles that next. She knows that skills are based on apti-
tudes and they get more expensive over 60, so she decides
the most she'll spend on any single skill is 40 (since her
highest aptitude is 20). She picks out her skills, assigns the


points, and adds them to the starting aptitudes.


This is what she starts with, noting the points she
spent on each and the total value (counting aptitude) in


parentheses.


EXAMPLE


Scrounging (INT) 40 (60).
This costs her 450 CP, so she’s spent a total of 560 CP.
Now she spends her 300 points of Knowledge skills:


Academics: Astrophysics (COG) 40 (60), Academics:
Engineering (COG) 40 (60), Academics: Fall History (COG)
40 (60), Art: Sculpture (INT) 40 (60), Interest: Brinker
Stations (COG) 40 (60), Interest: Conspiracies (COG) 30
(50), Language: English (INT) 40 (60), Profession: Appraisal
(COG) 40 (60), Profession: Scavenger Trade (COG) 40 (60).


Note that any skill or aptitude bonuses from
sleights are treated as modifications; they are applied
after all ‘CP Are spent andedo mor atiect the cost of
buying skills or aptitudes during character creation.


PURCHASE GEAR


No matter what faction you are from, you use Credit
to buy gear during character creation. A complete list
of gear and costs can be found in the Gear chapter
(p. 296). Use the average costs for each cost category
when calculating gear prices. Expensive items with a
minimum listed cost that minimum amount.

Every character starts off with one piece of gear
for free: a standard muse (p. 332). This is the digital
AI companion that the character has had since they


GEAR COSTS


CATEGORY RANGE (CREDITS) AVERAGE (CREDITS)


Trivial 1-99 50





Beam Weapons (COO) 30 (45), Climbing (SOM) 30 (45),
Demolitions (COG) 40 (60), Fray (REF) 30 (50), Freefall (REF)
40 (60), Freerunning (SOM) 30 (45), Hardware: Aerospace
(COG) 40 (60), Infiltration (COO) 30 (45), Interfacing (COG)
20 (40), Navigation (INT) 40 (60), Perception (INT) 40 (60),
Persuasion (SAV) 20 (30), Research (COG) 20 (40), and


Situational Awareness would be a good choice for her
scavenger. At a cost of 10 CP, she would need to take
another negative trait to compensate. She chooses Neural
Damage (synaesthesia)—a condition she inherited from a
rampaging nanovirus during the Fall.


This costs her another 350 CP, bringing her total spent


CP to 910.


Adding in her background and faction skills, she also


has Networking: Autonomists (SAV) 30, Networking:
Hypercorps (SAV) 30, Pilot: Spacecraft (REF) 30 (50), Pilot:
Groundcraft (REF) 30 (50). She takes the freebie +10 and
adds it to Fray (raising it to 60) and applies the other +10
to Academics: Economics (COG) 30.


With 90 CP left, Tai moves on to Rep. Tai wants to have


a lot of good connections, so she raises both of her Rep
scores by 30 points each, at a cost of 6 CP. She also decides
she needs some credibility with criminal types, so she buys
g-rep at 40, for 4 more CP. Now she has 80 CP left.


Tai's character needs a body, and she decides a bouncer


is most suited for the nomadic, spacefaring lifestyle of her
brinker. That costs another 40 CP, leaving her with 40 CP
left to spend.


Looking back at her skills, she decides to raise her


Pilot: Spacecraft from 50 to 65. It costs her 10 CP to raise
the skill to 60, and another 10 CP to raise it from 60 to
65, for a total cost of 20 CP. She also wants to raise her
Scrounging from 60 to 70, for a 20 CP cost. That nicely uses
up the last of her CP.


Scanning the traits, though, Tai also decides that


Tai’s points are now all evened out and spent.


were a child. Additionally, each character starts with 1
month of backup insurance (p. 331) at no cost.

There is no limitation other than what the gamemas-
ter allows on what gear characters can and cannot buy
during character creation. Both the players and game-
master should keep the character’s background and
faction in mind. Since some gear is likely very restricted
in some habitats if not outright illegal, there needs to be a
plausible explanation for who and how a character from
such a place might have such gear. If there isn’t, then
the gamemaster can choose not to allow it. The starting
locale for a game should also be considered. A character
from the restrictive Jovian Republic might have a hard
time explaining how they have an illegal cornucopia
machine, but if the game takes place on board a scum
barge where everything is available and anything goes,
then such an explanation becomes much easier.

The one exception to buying gear with Credit is
the purchase of additional morphs. Characters may
buy extra morphs during character creation, but they
must be bought with CP. The player must choose
one morph in which the character is sleeved. Extra
morphs also require body bank service fees (p. 331).

Note that any skill or aptitude bonuses from gear
are treated as modifications; they are applied after
all CP are spent and do not affect the cost of buying
skills or aptitudes during character creation.











Pm CHARACTER CREATION


137








SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE |


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION





SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SC HES
ACTIONS AND COMBAT





MIND HACKS
THE MESH





ACCELERATED FUTURE









GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





CHOOSE MOTIVATIONS


The next step is to choose 3 personal motivations for
your character (Motivations, p. 120). These are memes,
in the form of ideologies or goals, which your char-
acter is pursuing. These may be as specific as “under-
mine the local triad boss” or as broad as “promote
hypercapitalism,” and they may be short term or long
term. Some sample motivations are provided on the
Example Motivations table (this page, below). You
should work with your gamemaster when choos-
ing your motivations, as they can be used to propel
the storyline forward and specific scenarios can be
constructed around your character’s goals. Some of
your character’s motivations may change later (see
Changing Motivation, p. 152). Motivations will help
your character regain Moxie, (p. 122) and earn extra
Rez Points during gameplay (p. 385).

Motivations should be listed on your character
sheet as a single term or short phrase, along with
a + or — symbol to denote whether they support or
oppose it. For example, “+Fame” would indicate that
your character seeks to become a famous media per-
sonality, whereas “—-Reclaim Earth” means that your
character opposes the goal of reclaiming Earth.


FINAL TOUCHES


Now that you have everything settled, there are a few
final steps.


REMAINING STATS


A few stats now need to be calculated and added to
your character sheet:


e Lucidity, (p. 122) equals your character’s WIL x 2.

e Trauma Threshold, (p. 122) equals your LUC
divided by 5 (round up).

e Insanity Rating, (p. 122) equals LUC x 2.

e Initiative, (p. 121) equals your character’s
(REF + INT) + 5.


EAAMPLE MOTIVATIONS





Alien Contact
Anarchism

Artistic Expression
Bioconservatism
Education

Exploration

Fame

Fascism

Hedonism
Hypercapitalism
Immortality
Libertarianism

Martian Liberation
Morphological Freedom
Nano-ecology

Open Source

Personal Career
Personal Development
Philanthropy
Preservationism
Reclaiming Earth
Religion

Research
(Al/Infomorph/Pod/Uplift) Rights
(Al/Infomorph/Pod/Uplift) Slavery
Socialism
Techno-Progressivism
Vengeance

Venusian Sovereignty
Wealth


e Damage Bonus, (p. 122) for melee equals
SOM + 10 (round down).

e Death Rating, (p. 121) equals DUR x 1.5
(biomorphs, round up) or DUR x 2 (synthmorphs)

e Speed, (p. 121) equals 1 (3 for infomorphs),
modified as appropriate by implants.








DETHILING THE CHARACTER


The final step in character creation is filling in the
details and figuring out what your character is
like and what they are all about. Your character’s
Background is a good place to start as it says where
they came, but it could be expanded. What did they
think of their childhood? Do they still have ties from
there? How did they move from such origins to the
Faction they are part of? Are they fully supportive of
their Faction’s goals, or are they in opposition? How
does the character view other Factions?

Next, take a look at the skills and other defining
points—these also tell a story. How did they acquire
those skills? Why? How did they develop their Rep
score (or lack of one)? How did they get connected
with the groupings represented by their Networking
skills? What do the character’s traits say about them?
How did they get their current morph? Is it their
original? If not, what happened to their first body?

Also taking into account the major factor of
Motivations, all of these questions will help you build
a defining picture of your character. Not everything
about your character needs to be filled out, of course—
it’s ok to leave a few blanks that you can fill in later.
Assembling the points you have deduced so far will
help you to present your character as a whole, unique
individual, however, rather than just a blank template.

As a final step, take a few minutes to pick out some
specific identifying features and personality quirks that
will help you define the character to others. This could
be a way of talking, a strongly projected attitude, a
catchphrase they use frequently, a unique look or style
of dress, a repetitive behavior, an annoying mannerism,
or anything else similar that is easy to latch onto. Such
idiosyncrasies give something that other players can
latch onto, spurring roleplaying opportunities.


STARTING MORPHS


Each morph has an associated CP cost. It also supplies
the character’s Durability and Wound Threshold stats
and may modify Initiative, Speed, and certain aptitudes
and learned skills. A credit cost is also listed, but this
refers to the cost of buying such a morph in gameplay.

Flexible Aptitude Bonuses: Some morphs have apti-
tude bonuses that may be applied to an aptitude of the
player’s choice. This reflects that not all morphs are
created equal. When assigning these universal aptitude
bonuses, each boost must be applied to a separate apti-
tude; you may not elevate an aptitude that is already
raised by that morph. Once an individual morph’s
aptitude bonuses have been assigned, they are perma-
nent for that morph (1.e., if another character resleeves
into that morph, the bonuses remain the same).


BIOMORP HS


Biomorphs are fully biological sleeves (usually
equipped with implants), birthed naturally or in an
exowomb, and grown to adulthood either naturally
or at a slightly accelerated rate.


ret 5








FLATS


Flats are baseline unmodified humans, born with all
of the natural defects, hereditary diseases, and other
genetic mutations that evolution so lovingly applies.
Flats are increasingly rare—most died off with the rest
of humanity during the Fall. Most new children are
splicers—screened and genefixed at the least—except
in habitats where flats are treated as second-class citi-
zens and indentured labor.

Implants: None

Aptitude Maximum: 20

Durability: 30

Wound Threshold: 6

Disadvantages: None (Genetic Defects trait common)
CP Cost: 0

Credit Cost: High


SPLICERS


Splicers are genefixed humans. Their genome has

been cleansed of hereditary diseases and optimized

for looks and health, but has not otherwise been

substantially upgraded. Splicers make up the major-

ity of transhumanity.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack

Aptitude Maximum: 25

Durability: 30

Wound Threshold: 6

Advantages: +5 to one aptitude of the player’s choice

CP Cost: 10

Credit Cost: High


ENALTS


Exalt morphs are genetically enhanced humans,
designed to emphasize specific traits. Their genetic
code has been tweaked to make them healthier,
smarter, and more attractive. Their metabolism is
modified to predispose them towards staying fit and
athletic for the duration of an extended lifespan.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack
Aptitude Maximum: 30
Durability: 35
Wound Threshold: 7
Advantages: +5 COG, +5 to three other aptitudes of
the player’s choice
CP Cost: 30
Credit Cost: Expensive


MENTONS


Mentons are genetically modified to increase cogni-
tive abilities, particularly learning ability, creativity,
attentiveness, and memory. Rumors exist of super-
enhanced mentons with more extreme intelligence
mods, but brain-hacking is notoriously difficult, and
many attempts to redesign mental faculties result in
impaired functioning, instability, or insanity.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical

Stack, Eidetic Memory, Hyper Linguist, Math Boost
Aptitude Maximum: 30





Pm CHARACTER CREATION


139°

















SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL |
A TIME OF ECLIPSE


CHARACTER CREATION
—

















GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


x





Durability: 35

Wound Threshold: 7

Advantages: +10 COG, +5 INT, +5 WIL, +5 to one
aptitude of the player’s choice

CP Cost: 40

Credit Cost: Expensive


OLYMPIANS


Olympians are human upgrades with improved
athletic capabilities like endurance, eye-hand coor-
dination, and cardiovascular functions. Olympians
are common among athletes, dancers, freerunners,
and soldiers.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack
Aptitude Maximum: 30
Durability: 40
Wound Threshold: 8
Advantages: +5 COO, +5 REE, +10 SOM, +5 to one
other aptitude of the player’s choice
CP Cost: 40
Credit Cost: Expensive


SULP HS


Sylph morphs are tailor-made for media icons, elite

socialites, XP stars, models, and narcissists. Sylph

gene sequences are specifically designed for dis-

tinctive good looks. Ethereal and elfin features are

common, with slim and lithe bodies. Their metabo-

lism has also been sanitized to eliminate unpleasant

bodily odors and their pheromones adjusted for

universal appeal.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Clean
Metabolism, Cortical Stack, Enhanced Pheromones

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Durability: 35

Wound Threshold: 7

Advantages: Striking Looks (Level 1) trait, +5 COO,
+10 SAV, +5 to one other aptitude of the player’s choice

CP Cost: 40

Credit Cost: Expensive


BOUNCERS


Bouncers are humans genetically adapted for zero-g

and microgravity environments. Their legs are more

limber, and their feet can grasp as well as their hands.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
Stack, Grip Pads, Oxygen Reserve, Prehensile Feet

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Durability: 35

Wound Threshold: 7

Advantages: Limber (Level 1) trait, +5 COO, +5 SOM,
+5 to one aptitude of the player’s choice

CP Cost: 40

Credit Cost: Expensive


FURIES


Furies are combat morphs. These transgenic human
upgrades feature genetics tailored for endur-
ance, strength, and reflexes, as well as behavioral


modifications for aggressiveness and cunning. To

offset tendencies for unruliness and macho behavior

patterns, furies feature gene sequences promoting
pack mentalities and cooperation, and they tend to
be biologically female.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Bioweave Armor (Light), Cortical Stack, Enhanced
Vision, Neurachem (Level 1), Toxin Filters

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Speed Modifier: +1 (neurachem)

Durability: 50

Wound Threshold: 10

Advantages: +5 COO, +5 REE, +10 SOM, +5 WIL,
+5 to one aptitude of the player’s choice

CP Cost: 75

Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 40,000)


FUTURA


An exalt variant, futura morphs were specially crafted

for the “Lost generation.” Tailor-made for accelerated

growth and adjusted for confidence, self-reliance, and

adaptability, futuras were intended to help transhu-

manity regain its foothold. These programs proved

disastrous and the line was discontinued, but some

models remain, viewed by some with distaste and

others as collectibles or exotic oddities.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
Stack, Eidetic Memory, Emotional Dampers

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Durability: 35

Wound Threshold: 7

Advantages: +5 COG, +5 SAV, +10 WIL, +5 to one
other aptitude of the player’s choice

CP Cost: 40

Credit Cost: Expensive (exceptionally rare; 50,000+)


GHOSTS


Ghosts are partially designed for combat applications,

but their primary focus is stealth and infiltration.

Their genetic profile encourages speed, agility, and

reflexes, and their minds are modified for patience and

problem-solving.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Chame-
leon Skin, Cortical Stack, Adrenal Boost, Enhanced
Vision, Grip Pads

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Durability: 45

Wound Threshold: 9

Advantages: +10 COO, +5 REE, +5 SOM, +5 WIL,
+5 to one aptitude of the player’s choice

CP Cost: 70

Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 40,000)


HIBERNOIDS


Hibernoids are transgenic-modified humans with
heavily altered sleep patterns and metabolic processes.
Hibernoids have a decreased need for sleep, requir-
ing only 1-2 hours a day on average. They also have
the ability to trigger a form of voluntary hibernation,
effectively stopping their metabolism and need for








oxygen. Hibernoids make excellent long-duration

space travelers and habtechs, but these morphs are

also favored by personal aides and hypercapitalists

with non-stop lifestyles.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Circa-
dian Regulation, Cortical Stack, Hibernation

Aptitude Maximum: 25

Durability: 35

Wound Threshold: 7

Advantages: +5 INT, +5 to one aptitude of the player’s
choice

CP Cost: 25

Credit Cost: Expensive


NEQTENICS


Neotenics are transhumans modified to retain a child-

like form. They are smaller, more agile, inquisitive,

and less resource-depleting, making them ideal for

habitat living and spacecraft. Some people find neo-

tenic sleeves distasteful, especially when employed in

certain media and sex work capacities.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
Stack

Aptitude Maximum: 20 (SOM), 30 (all else)

Durability: 30

Wound Threshold: 6

Advantages: +5 COO, +5 INT, +5 REEF, +5 to one
aptitude of the player’s choice; neotenics count as a
small target (-10 modifier to hit in combat)

Disadvantages: Social Stigma (Neotenic) trait

CP Cost: 25

Credit Cost: Expensive


REMADE


The remade are completely redesigned humans: humans

2.0. Their cardiovascular systems are stronger, the

digestive tract has been sanitized and restructured to

eliminate flaws, and they have otherwise been optimized

for good health, smarts, and longevity with numerous

transgenic mods. The remade are popular with the ulti-

mates faction. The remade look close to human, but are

different in very noticeable and sometimes eerie ways:

taller, lack of hair, slightly larger craniums, wider eyes,

smaller noses, smaller teeth, and elongated digits.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Circa-
dian Regulation, Clean Metabolism, Cortical Stack,
Eidetic Memory, Enhanced Respiration, Tempera-
ture Tolerance, Toxin Filters

Aptitude Maximum: 40

Durability: 40

Wound Threshold: 8

Advantages: +10 COG, +5 SAV, +10 SOM, +5 to two
other aptitudes of the player’s choice

Disadvantages: Uncanny Valley trait

CP Cost: 60

Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 40,000+)


RUSTERS


Adapted for survival with minimum gear in the
not-yet-terraformed Martian environment, these


transgenic morphs feature insulated skin for more

effective thermoregulation and respiratory system

improvements to require less oxygen and filter carbon

dioxyde, among other mods.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
Stack, Enhanced Respiration, Temperature Tolerance

Aptitude Maximum: 25

Durability: 35

Wound Threshold: 7

Advantages: +5 SOM, +5 to one aptitude of the
player’s choice

CP Cost: 25

Credit Cost: Expensive


NEO-AVIANS


Neo-avians include ravens, crows, and gray parrots
uplifted to human-level intelligence. Their physical sizes
are much larger than their non-uplifted cousins (to
the size of a human child), with larger heads for their


increased brain size. Numerous transgenic modifica-


tions have been made to their wings, allowing them to
retain limited flight capabilities at 1 g, but giving them
a more bat-like physiology so they can bend and fold
better and adding primitive digits for basic tool manipu-
lation. Their toes are also more articulated and now
accompanied with an opposable thumb. Neo-avians
have adapted well to microgravity environments, and
are favored for their small size and reduced resource use.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack
Aptitude Maximum: 25 (20 SOM)
Durability: 20
Wound Threshold: 4
Advantages: Beak/Claw Attack (1d10 DV, -1, use
Unarmed Combat skill), Flight, +5 INT, +10 REE +5
to one other aptitude of the player’s choice. Neo-avians
count as a small target (-10 modifier to hit in combat).
CP Cost: 25
Credit Cost: Expensive


NEO-HOMINIDS


Neo-hominids are uplifted chimpanzees, gorillas, and

orangutans. All feature enhanced intelligence and

bipedal frames.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack, Prehensile Feet

Aptitude Maximum: 25

Durability: 30

Wound Threshold: 6

Advantages: +5 COO, +5 INT, +5 SOM, +5 to one other
aptitude of the player’s choice, +10 Climbing skill

CP Cost: 25

Credit Cost: Expensive


OCTOMORPHS


These uplifted octopi sleeves have proven quite useful
in zero-gravity environments. They retain eight arms,
their chameleon ability to change skin color, ink sacs,
and a sharp beak. They also have increased brain mass
and longevity, can breathe both air and water, and lack





_
_
-_


—
=
fj
<—c
[Ll
i
c5
oc
Lj
—
a)
_
==
_
==
a5











A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


—


























oh —


a skeletal structure so they can squeeze
through tight spaces. Octomorphs typi-
cally crawl along in zero gravity using their
arm suckers and expelling air for propulsion and
can even walk on two of their arms in low gravity.
Their eyes have been enhanced with color vision,
provide a 360-degree field of vision, and rotationally


adjust to keep the slit-shaped pupil aligned with “up.”


A transgenic vocal system allows them to speak.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
Stack, Chameleon Skin

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Durability: 30

Wound Threshold: 6

Advantages: 8 Arms, Beak Attack (1d10 DV, AP -1, use
Unarmed Combat skill), Ink Attack (blinding, use
Exotic Ranged: Ink Attack skill), Limber (Level 2)
trait, 360-degree Vision, +30 Swimming skill, +10
Climbing skill, +5 COO, +5 INT, +5 to one other
aptitude of the player’s choice

CP Cost: 50

Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 30,000+)


PODS


Pods (from “pod people”) are vat-grown, biological
bodies with extremely undeveloped brains that are aug-
mented with an implanted computer and cybernetics
system. Though typically run by an AI, pods are socially
unfavored in some stations, used as slave labor in others,
and even illegal in some areas. Because pods underwent
accelerated growth in their creation and were mostly
grown as separate parts and then assembled, their bio-
logical design includes some shortcuts and limitations,
offset with implants and regular maintenance. They lack
reproductive capabilities. In many habitats, their legal
status is a hotly contested issue.









Unless otherwise noted,
pods are also considered bio-
morphs for all rules purposes.


© LEASURE PODS


— Pleasure pods are exactly what they seem—
faux humans designed purely for intimate
entertainment purposes. Pleasure pods have extra
nerve clusters in their erogenous zones, fine motor
control over certain muscle groups, enhanced phero-
mones, sanitized metabolisms, and the genetics for
purring. Naturally, they are crafted for good looks
and charisma and enhanced in other areas as well.
Pleasure pods are capable of switching their sex at
will to male, female, hermaphrodite, neuter, or other
intersex variations.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Clean
Metabolism, Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Enhanced
Pheromones, Mnemonic Augmentation, Puppet
Sock, Sex Switch

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Durability: 30

Wound Threshold: 6

Advantages: +5 INT, +5 SAV, +5 to one aptitude of the
player’s choice

Disadvantages: Social Stigma (Pleasure Pod) trait

CP Cost: 20

Credit Cost: High


WORKER PODS


Part exalt human, part machine, these basic pods are

virtually indistinguishable from humans. Worker pods

are often used in menial labor jobs where interaction
with humans is necessary.

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
Stack, Cyberbrain, Mnemonic Augmentation,
Puppet Sock

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Durability: 35

Wound Threshold: 7

Advantages: +10 SOM, +5 to one aptitude of the
player’s choice

Disadvantages: Social Stigma (Pod) trait

CP Cost: 20

Credit Cost: High


NOVACRAB


Novacrabs are a pod design bioengineered from
coconut crab and spider crab stock and grown to a
larger (human) size. Novacrabs are ideal for hazard-
ous work environments as well as vacworker, police,
or bodyguard duties, given their ten 2-meter long legs,
massive claws, and chitinous armor. They climb and
handle microgravity well and can withstand a wide
range of atmospheric pressure (and sudden pressure
changes) from vacuum to deep sea. Novacrabs feature
compound eyes (with human-equivalent image resolu-
tion), gills, dexterous manipulatory digits on their fifth
set of limbs, and transgenic vocal cords.

















Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cara-
pace Armor, Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Enhanced
Respiration, Gills, Mnemonic Augmentation,
Oxygen Reserve, Puppet Sock, Temperature Toler-
ance, Vacuum Sealing

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Durability: 40

Wound Threshold: 8

Advantages: 10 legs, Carapace Armor (11/11), Claw
Attack (DV 2d10), +10 SOM, +5 to two other apti-
tudes of the player’s choice

CP Cost: 60

Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 30,000+)


SYNTHETIC MORPHS


Synthetic morphs are completely artificial/robotic. They
are usually operated by Als or via remote control, but
the lack of available biomorphs after the Fall meant
that many infugees resorted to resleeving in robotic
shells, which were also cheaper, quicker to manufacture,
and more widely available. Nevertheless, synthmorphs
are viewed with disdain in many habitats, an option
that only the poor and desperate accept to be sleeved
in. Synthetic morphs are not without their advantages,
however, and so are commonly used for menial labor,
heavy labor, habitat construction, and security services.
All synthmorphs have the following advantages:


e Lack of Biological Functions. Synthmorphs need
not be bothered with trivialities like breathing,
eating, defecating, aging, sleeping, or any similar
minor but crucial aspects of biological life.

e Pain Filter. Synthmorphs can filter out their
pain receptors so that they are unhampered by
wounds or physical damage. This allows them
to ignore the -10 modifier from 1 wound (see
Wound Effects, p. 207), but they suffer -30 on
any tactile-based Perception Tests and will not
even notice they have been damaged unless they
succeed in a (modified) Perception Test.

e Immunity to Shock Weapons. Synthmorphs have
no nervous system to disrupt, and their optical
electronics are carefully shielded from interfer-
ence. Shock attacks may temporarily disrupt their
wireless radio communications, however, for the
duration of the attack.

e Environmental Durability. Synthmorphs are
built to withstand a wide range of environments,
from dusty Mars to the oceans of Europa to the
vacuum of space. They are unaffected by any but
the most extreme temperatures and atmospheric
pressures. Treat as temperature tolerance (p. 305)
and vacuum sealing (p. 306).

e Toughness. Synthetic shells are made to last—a
fact reflected in their higher Durability and built-
in Armor ratings. Their composition also makes
their physical strikes more damaging: apply a +2
DV modifier on unarmed attacks for human-sized
shells and larger.


CASE


Cases are extremely cheap, mass-produced robotic

shells intended to provide an affordable remorphing

option for the millions of infugees created by the Fall.

Though many varieties of case shells exist, they are

uniformly regarded as shoddy and inferior. Most case

morphs are vaguely anthropomorphic, with a thin

framework body standing just shorter than an average

human. They suffer from frequent malfunctions.

Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh
Inserts, Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Mnemonic
Augmentation

Mobility System (Movement Rate): Walker (4/16)

Aptitude Maximum: 20

Durability: 20

Wound Threshold: 4

Advantages: Armor (4/4)

Disadvantages: —5 to one chosen aptitude, Lemon trait,
Social Stigma (Clanking Masses) trait

CP Cost: 5

Credit Cost: Moderate


SYNTH


Synths are anthropomorphic robotic shells (androids

and gynoids). They are typically used for menial

labor jobs where pods are not as good of an option.

Cheaper than many other morphs, they are com-

monly used for people who need a body quickly and

cheaply or simply on a transient basis. Though they
look humanoid, synths are easily recognizable as
non-biological unless they have the synthetic mask

option (p. 311).

Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh
Inserts, Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Mnemonic
Augmentation

Mobility System: Walker (4/20)

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Durability: 40

Wound Threshold: 8

Advantages: +5 SOM, +5 to one other aptitude of the
player’s choice, Armor 6/6

Disadvantages: Social Stigma (Clanking Masses) trait,
Uncanny Valley trait

CP Cost: 30

Credit Cost: High


ARACHIOIDS


Arachnoid robotic shells are 1-meter in length, seg-
mented into two parts, with a smaller head like a
spider or termite. They feature four pairs of 1.5-meter-
long retractable arms/legs, capable of rotating around
the axis of the body, with built-in pneumatic systems
for propelling the bot with small leaps. The manipula-
tor claws on each arm/leg can be switched out with
extendable mini-wheels for high-speed skating move-
ment. A smaller pair of manipulator arms near the
head allows for closer handling and tool use. In zero-g
environments, arachnoids can retract their arms/legs
and maneuver with vectored air thrusters.
















Pm CHARACTER CREATION


143°














<=>


CHARACTER CREATION











GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


i





Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Enhanced Vision, Extra
Limbs (10 Arms/Legs), Lidar, Mnemonic Augmenta-
tion, Pneumatic Limbs, Radar

Mobility System: Walker (4/24), Thrust Vector (8/40),
Wheeled 8/40

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Durability: 40

Wound Threshold: 8

Advantages: +5 COO, +10 SOM, Armor 8/8

CP Cost: 45

Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 40,000+)


DRAGONFLY


The dragonfly robotic morph takes the shape of a

meter-long flexible shell with multiple wings and

manipulator arms. Capable of near-silent turbofan-

aided flight in Earth gravity, dragonfly bots fare even

better in microgravity.

Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Mnemonic Augmentation

Mobility System: Winged (8/32)

Aptitude Maximum: 30 (20 SOM)

Durability: 25

Wound Threshold: 5

Advantages: Flight, +5 REE Armor (2/2), dragonflies
count as a small target (—10 to hit in combat)

CP Cost: 20

Credit Cost: High


FLERBOTS


Designed for multipurpose functions, flexbots can
transform their shells to suit a range of situations
and tasks. Their core frame consists of a half-dozen
interlocking and shape-adjustable modules capable
of auto-transforming into a variety of shapes: multi-
legged walker, tentacle, hovercraft, and many others.

Each module features its own sensor units and “bush

robot” fractal-branching digits (capable of breaking

into smaller digits, down to the micrometer scale,
allowing for ultra-fine manipulation). The flexbot
control computer is also distributed between modules.

Individual flexbots are only the size of a large dog, but

multiple flexbots can join together for larger mass

operations, even taking on heavy-duty tasks such
as demolition, excavation, manufacturing, robotics
assembly, and so on.

Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Fractal Digits,
Mnemonic Augmentation, Modular Design, Nano-
scopic Vision, Shape Adjusting

Mobility System: Walker (4/16), Hover (8/40)

Aptitude Maximum: 30 (SOM 25)

Durability: 25

Wound Threshold: 5

Advantages: Armor 4/4, individual flexbots count as a
small target (-10 modifier to hit in combat)

CP Cost: 20

Credit Cost: Expensive


REAPER


The reaper is a common combat bot, used in place of
biomorph soldiers and typically operated via teleop-
eration or by autonomous AI. The reaper’s core form
is an armored disc, so that it can turn and present a
thin profile to an enemy. It uses vector-thrust nozzles
to maneuver in microgravity and also takes advan-
tage of an ionic drive for fast movement over distance.
Four legs/manipulating arms and four weapon pods
are folded inside its frame. The reaper’s shell is made
of smart materials, allowing these limbs and weapon
mounts to extrude in any direction desired and even
to change shape and length. In gravity environments,
the reaper walks or hops on two or four of these limbs.
Reapers are infamous due to numerous war XPs, and





bringing one into most habitats will undoubtedly raise

eyebrows if not get you arrested.

Enhancements: 360-Degree Vision, Access Jacks, Anti-
Glare, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical Stack, Cyber-
brain, Cyber Claws, Extra Limbs (4), Magnetic
System, Mnemonic Augmentation, Pneumatic Limbs,
Puppet Sock, Radar, Reflex Booster, Shape Adjusting,
Structural Enhancement, T-Ray Emitter, Weapon
Mount (Articulated, 4)

Mobility System: Walker (4/20), Hopper (4/20), Ionic
(12/40), Vectored Thrust (4/20)

Aptitude Maximum: 40

Speed Modifier: +1 (Reflex Booster)

Durability: 50 (60 with Structural Enhancement)

Wound Threshold: 10 (12 w/Structural Enhancement)

Advantages: 4 Limbs, +5 COO, +10 REF (+20 with
Reflex Booster), +10 SOM, Armor 16/16

CP Cost: 100

Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 50,000+)


SLITHEROIDS


Slitheroid bots are synthetic shells taking the form of

a 2-meter-long segmented metallic snake, with two

retractable arms for tool use. Snake bots can coil,

twist, and roll their bodies into a ball or hoop, moving

either by slithering, burrowing, rolling, or pulling

themselves along by their arms. The sensor suite and

control computer are housed in the head.

Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Enhanced Vision,
Mnemonic Augmentation

Mobility System: Snake (4/16; 8/32 rolling)

Aptitude Maximum: 30

Durability: 45

Wound Threshold: 9

Advantages: +5 COO, +5 SOM, +5 to one other apti-
tude of the player’s choice, Armor 8/8

CP Cost: 40

Credit Cost: Expensive


SWARMANOID


The swarmanoid is not a single shell per se, but rather
a swarm of hundreds of insect-sized robotic micro-
drones. Each individual “bug” is capable of crawling,
rolling, hopping several meters, or using nanocopter





fan blades for airlift. The controlling computer,
cortical stack, and sensor systems are distributed
throughout the swarm. Though the swarm can “meld”
together into a roughly child-sized shape, the swarm
is incapable of tackling physical tasks like grabbing,
lifting, or holding as a unit. Individual bugs are quite
capable of interfacing with electronics.
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Mnemonic Augmenta-
tion, Swarm Composition
Mobility System: Walker (2/8), Hopper (4/20), Rotor
(4/32)
Aptitude Maximum: 30
_ Durability: 30
Wound Threshold: 6
Advantages: See Swarm Composition (p. 311)
Disadvantages: See Swarm Composition (p. 311)
CP Cost: 25
Credit Cost: Expensive


IMFOMORPHS


Infomorphs are digital-only forms—they lack a physi-
cal body. Infomorphs are sometimes carried by other
characters instead of (or in addition to) a muse in a
ghostrider module (p. 307). Full rules for infomorphs
can be found on p. 265.

Enhancements: Mnemonic Augmentation

Aptitude Maximum: 40

Speed Modifier: +2

Disadvantages: No physical form

CP Cost: 0

Credit Cost: 0


TRAITS


Unless otherwise noted, listed traits are ego traits.


POSITIVE TRAITS


Positive traits provide bonuses to the character in
certain situations.


ADAPTABILITY
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP

Resleeving is a breeze for this character. They adjust
to new morphs much more quickly than most other
people. Apply a +10 modifier per level for Integration
Tests (p. 271) and Alienation Tests (p. 272).


ALLIES
Cost: 30 CP

The character is part of or has a relationship
with some influential group that they can occasion-
ally call on for support. For example, this could
be their old gatecrashing crew, former research lab
co-workers, a criminal cartel they are part of, or
an elite social clique. The gamemaster and player
should work out what the character’s relationship
is with this group, and why the character can call
on them for aid. Gamemaster’s should take care
that these allies are not abused, such as calling


on them more than once per game session. The
character’s ties to this group are also a two-way
street—they will be expected to perform duties for
the group on occasion as well (a potential plot seed
for scenarios).


AMBIDERTROUS
Cost: 10 CP

The character can use and manipulate objects
equally well with both hands (they do not suffer the
off-hand modifier, as noted under Wielding Two or
More Weapons, p. 206). If the character has other
prehensile limbs (feet, tail, tentacles, etc.), this trait
may be applied to a limb other than the hand. This
trait may be taken multiple times for multiple limbs.


ANIMAL EMPATHY
Cost: 5 CP
The character has an instinctive feel for handling


and working with non-sapient animals of all kinds. —


Apply a +10 modifier to Animal Handling skill tests
or whenever the character makes a test to influence or
interact with an animal.


BRAVE
Cost: 10 CP

This character does not scare easily and will
face threats, intimidation, and certain bodily harm
without flinching. As a side effect, the character is
not always the best at gauging risks, especially when
it comes to factoring in danger to others. The char-
acter receives a +10 modifier on all tests to resist
fear or intimidation.


COMMON SENSE
Cesc 10'CP

The character has an innate sense of judgment that
cuts through other distractions and factors that might
cloud a decision. Once per game session, the player
may ask the gamemaster what choice they should
make or what course of action they should take, and
the gamemaster should give them solid advice based
on what the character knows. Alternatively, if the
character is about to make a disastrous decision, the
gamemaster can use the character’s free hint and warn
the player they are making a mistake.


DANGER SENSE
Cost: 10 CP

The character has an intuitive sixth sense that
warns them of imminent threats. They receive a +10
modifier on Surprise Tests (p. 204).


DIRECTION SENSE
Cost: 5 CP

Somehow the character always knows which way
is up, north, etc., even when blinded. The character
receives a +10 modifier for figuring out complex
directions, reading maps, and remembering or retrac-
ing a path they have taken.





—
=
fj
<—c
[Ll
i
c5
oc
Lj
—
a)
_
==
_
==
a5


o=_
A
Ol

















SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL |
A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


as








ACCELERATED FUTURE






GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





EIDETIC MEMORY (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 CP

Much like a computer, the character has perfect
memory recall. They can remember anything they have
sensed, often even from a single glance. This works the
same as the eidetic memory implant (p. 301).


ERCEPTIONAL APTITUDE (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 20 CP

As an ego trait, the character may raise the
maximum for a particular chosen aptitude to 40 rather
than 30 (p. 122). As a morph trait, it raises the morph
aptitude maximum (p. 124) for a particular chosen
aptitude by 10 (30 for flats, 35 for splicers, 40 for all
others). Note that this trait just raises the maximum,
it does not give the character 10 more aptitude points.
This trait may only be taken by a morph or ego once.


ERPERT
Cost: 10 CP

The character is a legend in the use of one particular
skill. The character may raise one learned skill over 80,
to a maximum of 90, during character creation. This
trait does not actually increase the skill, it just raises
the maximum. This trait may only be taken once.


FAST LEARIER
Cost: 10 CP

The character improves skills and learns new ones
in half the time it normally takes (see Improving
Nellis, p. Iso)


FIRST IMPRESSION
Cost: 10 CP

The character has a way of charming or otherwise
making a good impression the first time they interact
with someone. This innate social lubricant allows them
to more readily deal with new contacts and slip right
into new social environments. Apply a +10 modifier
on social skill tests when the character is interacting
with another character for the first time only.


HYPER LINGUIST
Cost: 10 CP

The character has an intuitive understanding of
linguistic structures that facilitates learning new
languages easily. The character requires one-third the
normal amount of time to learn any language (see
Improving Skills, p. 152). The character can also learn
any human language in one day simply by constant
immersive exposure to it. Additionally, the character
receives a +10 modifier when attempting to interpret
languages they don’t know.


IMPROVED IMMUNE SYSTEM (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP

The morph’s immune system is robust and more
resistant to diseases, drugs, and toxins—even more
than basic biomods. At Level 1, apply a +10 modifier
whenever making a test to resist infection or the effects


of a toxin or drug. At Level 2, increase this modifier to
+20. This trait is only available to biomorphs.


INNOCUOUS (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 CP

In an age when exotic appearances and good looks
are commonplace, the morph’s look is surprisingly
bland and undistinguished, in that cookie cutter sort of
way. The character’s physical looks are so mundane that
others have a hard time picking them out of a crowd,
describing their appearance, or otherwise remembering
physical details. Apply a -10 modifier to all tests made
to spot, describe, or remember the character. This modi-
fier does not apply to psi or mesh searches.


LIMBER (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Leveh2) CP

The morph is especially flexible and supple, capable of
graceful contortions and interesting positions. At Level
1, the character can smoke with their toes, do the splits,
and squeeze into small, cramped spaces. At Level 2, they
are double-jointed escape artists. Each level provides a
+10 modifier to escaping from bonds, fitting into narrow
confines, and other acts relying on contortion or flex-
ibility. This trait is only available to biomorphs.


MATH WIZ
Cost: 10 CP

The character can perform any feat of calculation,
including the most complex and advanced mathemat-
ics, instantly and with great precision, with the same
ease an unmodified human can add 2 + 3. The charac-
ter can calculate odds, find correlations in numerical
data, and perform similar tasks with great ease. Apply
a +30 modifier on tests involving math calculations.


MATURAL IMMUNITY (MORPH TRAIT]
Cost: 10 CP

The morph has a natural immunity to a specific
drug, disease, or toxin. When afflicted with that
specific chemical, poison, or pathogen, the charac-
ter remains unaffected. This immunity may not be
applied to nanodrugs or nanotoxins and at the game-
master’s discretion may not be applied to other spe-
cific agents. This trait is only available to biomorphs.


DAN TOLERANCE (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT}
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP

The character has a high threshold for pain toler-
ance and is better at ignoring the effects of pain on
their abilities and concentration. Level 1 allows them
to ignore the -10 modifier from 1 wound. Level 2
allows them to ignore the -10 modifiers from 2
wounds. This trait is only available for biomorphs.


PATRON
Cost: 30 CP

The character has an influential person in their
life who can be relied on for occasional support.
This could be a wealthy hyperelite family member, a





Gy


high-ranking triad boss, or an anarchist networker
with an unbeatable reputation. When called upon,
this patron can pull strings on the character’s behalf,
supply resources, introduce them to people they need
to know, and bail them out of trouble. The player
and gamemaster should work together to define
exactly who this NPC is and what their relationship
with the player character is. Specifically, the question
of why this patron is supporting the character should
be answered (familial obligation? childhood buddies?
the character saved their life once?). Gamemasters
should be careful that this trait does not get abused.
The patron should be an occasional help (probably
no more than once per game session at most) but is
not always at the character’s beck-and-call. If the
character asks for too much, too often, they should
find the patron’s support drying up. Additionally, the
character may need to take action to maintain the
relationship, such as undertaking a mission on the
patron’s behalf. In fact, the character may only have
their patronage because they are on-call or of use to
the NPC in some way.


D5I
Cost®2Q CP (Level 1), 25 CP (Level 2}

The character has been infected with the Watts-
MacLeod strain of the exsurgent virus, which altered
their brain structure and opened the potential for their
mind to enhance their cognitive abilities and read and
manipulate the biological minds of others (see Psi,
p. 220). The character may purchase and learn (see
Psi-Chi Sleights, p. 223). At Level 1, the character may
only use psi-chi sleights. At Level 2, the character may
use both psi-chi and psi-gamma sleights.

Though this trait is not very expensive, gamemas-
ters should not allow it to be abused. There are a
number of negative side effects to Watts-MacLeod
infection, noted under Psi Drawbacks, p. 220.


D5] CHAMELEON (EG0 OR MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 CP

The character’s mental state is naturally resistant to
psi sensing. Apply a -10 modifier to any attempts to
locate or detect the character via psi sleights.


D5] DEFENSE (EG0 OR MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP

The character’s mind is inherently resistant to
mental attacks. At Level 1, apply a +10 modifier to
all defense tests made against psi attacks. At Level 2,
apply a +20 modifier.


RAPID HEALER (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 CP

The morph recovers from damage more quickly.
Reduce the timeframes for healing by half, as noted
on the Healing table, p. 208. This trait is only avail-
able to biomorphs.


RIGHT AT HOME
Cost: 10 CP

The character chooses one type of morph (splicer,
neo-hominid, case, etc.). The character always feels
right at home in morphs of this type. When resleev-
ing into this type of morph, the character auto-
matically adjusts to the new body, no Integration or
Alienation Test needed, suffering no penalties and
no mental stress.


SECOND SKIN
Cost: 15 CP

If your character background or faction enforces
a restriction on your starting morph (for example,
uplifts must start with an uplift morph), this trait
allows you to ignore that restriction and purchase a
starting morph of your choice.





Pm CHARACTER CREATION


147

















SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL |
A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


>
—











GAME INFORMATION





REFERENCE


rH





SITUATIONAL AWARENESS
Cost: 10 CP

The character is very good at maintaining con-
tinuous partial awareness of the goings-on in their
immediate environment. In game terms, they do not
suffer the Distracted modifier on Perception Tests
to notice things even when their attention is focused
elsewhere or when making Quick Perception Tests
during combat.


STRIKING LOOKS (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP

In an age where biosculpting is easy, good looks are
both cheap and commonplace. This morph, however,
possesses a physical look that can only be described as
striking and unusual, but also somehow alluring and
fascinating—even the gorgeous and chiseled glitterati
take notice. On social skill tests where the character’s
beauty may affect the outcome, they receive a +10 (for
Level 1) or +20 (for Level 2) modifier. This modifier
is ineffective against xenomorphs or those with the
infolife or uplift backgrounds. This trait is only avail-
able to biomorphs.

This modifier may be purchased for uplift morphs,
but at half the cost, and it is only effective against
characters with that specific uplift background (1.e.,
neo-avians, neo-hominids, etc.).

The one drawback to this trait is that the character
is more easily noticed and remembered.


TOUGH (MORPH TRAIT)

Cost: 10 (Level 1), 20 (Level 2), or 30 (Level 3) CP
This morph is resilient than others of its type

and can take more physical abuse. Increase their

Durability by +5 per level (+5 at Level 1, +10 at

Level 2, and +15 at Level 3). This also increases

Wound Threshold by +1, +2, and +3 respectively.


ZOOSEMIOTICS
Cost: $

A character with this trait and the Psi trait does
not suffer a modifier when using psi sleights on non-
sapient or partly sapient animal species.


NEGATIVE TRAITS


Negative traits generally hinder the character and
apply negative modifiers in certain circumstances.


ADDICTION (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT}
Bonus: 5 CP (Minor), 10 CP (Moderate), or 20 CP

(Major)

Addiction comes in two forms: mental (affecting
the ego) and physical (affecting the biomorph). The
character or morph is addicted to aXdrue (py 317);
stimulus (XP), or activity (mesh use) to a degree that
impacts the character’s physical or mental health.
Players and gamemasters should work together to
agree on addictions that are appropriate for their
game. Addiction comes in three levels of severity:
minor, moderate, or major:


Minor: A minor addiction is largely kept under
control—it does not ruin the character’s life, though
it may create some difficulties. The character may not
even recognize or admit they have a problem. The
character must indulge the addiction at least once
a week, though they can go for longer without too
much difficulty. If they fail to get their weekly dose,
they suffer a-10 modifier on all actions until they get
their fix.

Moderate: A moderate addiction is in full swing.
The character obviously has a problem, and must
satisfy the addiction at least once a day. If they fail
to do so, they may suffer mood swings, compulsive
behavior, physical sickness, or other side effects until
they indulge their craving. Apply a -20 modifier to
all of the character’s actions until they get their fix.
Additionally, a character with this level of addiction
suffers a penalty of -S DUR (physical addiction) or
—10 to Willpower Stress Tests (mental addiction).

Major: A character with a major addiction is on
the rapid road to ruin. They face cravings every 6
hours and suffer a penalty of -10 DUR (physical
addiction) or —20 to Willpower Stress Tests (mental
addiction). If they fail to get their regular dosage,
they suffer a -30 modifier on all actions until they
do. If their life hasn’t already been ruined by their
obsession, it soon will be.


AGED (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP

The morph is physically aged and has not been
rejuvenated. Old morphs are increasingly uncommon,
though some people adopt them hoping to gain an air
of seniority and respectability. Reduce the character’s
aptitude maximums by 5, and apply a -10 modifier
on all physical actions.

This trait may only be applied to flat and splicer
morphs.


BAD LUCK
Bonus: 30 CP

Due to some inexplicable cosmic coincidence,
things seem to go wrong around the character. The
gamemaster is given a pool of Moxie points equal
to the character’s Moxie stat, which also refreshes
at the same rate as the character’s Moxie. Only the
gamemaster may utilize this Moxie, however, and
the purpose is to use it against the character. In other
words, the gamemaster can use this bad Moxie to
cause the character to automatically fail, flip-flop a
roll, and so on. To reflect the black cloud that follows
the character, the gamemaster can even use this
bad Moxie against the character’s friends and allies,
when they are doing something with or related to
the character, though this should be used sparingly.
Gamemasters who might be reluctant to sabotage the
character should remember that the player asked for
it by purchasing this trait.








— a


—_








BLACKLISTED
Bonus: 5 or 20 CP

The character has managed to get themselves
blacklisted in certain circles, whether they actually
did something to deserve it or not. In game terms, the
character is barred from having a Rep score higher
than 0 in one particular reputation network. People
within that network will refuse to help the character
out of fear of reprisals and ruining their own reputa-
tion. The bonus for this trait is 20 CP if chosen for the
rep network pertaining to the character’s own starting
faction, and 5 CP if chosen for any other.


BLACK MARK
Bonus: 10 (Level 1), 20 (Level 2),

or 30 (Level 3) CP

At some point in the character’s past, they managed
to do something that earned a black mark on their
reputation. For some reason, no matter what they do,
this black mark cannot be shaken off and continues to
haunt their interactions. In game terms, the character
picks one faction. Every time they interact with this
faction (such as a Networking Test) or with an NPC
from this faction (Social Skill Tests) who knows the
character, they suffer a -10 modifier per level.


COMBAT PARALYSIS
Bonus: 20 CP

The character has an unfortunate habit of freezing
in combat or stressful situations, like a deer caught in
headlights. Anytime violence breaks out around the
character or they are surprised, the character must
make a Willpower Test in order to act or respond in
any way. If they fail the test, they lose their action and
simply stand there, remaining incapable of reacting to
the situation.


EDITED MEMORIES
Bonus: 10 CP

At some point in the character’s past, the charac-
ter had certain memories strategically removed or
otherwise lost to them. This may have been done to
intentionally forget an unpleasant or shameful experi-
ence or to make a break with the past. The memory
may also have been lost by an unexpected death (with
no recent backup), or it may have been erased against
the character’s will. Whatever the case, the memory
should bear some importance, and there should exist
either evidence of what happened or NPCs who know
the full story. This is a tool the gamemaster can use to
haunt the character at some future point with ghosts
from their past.


ENEMY
Bonus: 10 CP

At some point in their past, the character made
an enemy for life who continues to haunt them. The
gamemaster and player should work out the details on
this enmity, and the gamemaster should use the enemy
as an occasional threat, surprise, and hindrance.


= | =


FEEBLE
Bonus: 20 CP

The character is particularly weak with one apti-
tude. That aptitude must be purchased at a rating
lower than 5 and may never be upgraded during char-
acter advancement. The aptitude maximum is 10, no
matter what morph the character is wearing.


FRAIL (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP
This morph is not as resilient as others of its type.
Its Durability is reduced by 5 per level. This also
——— reduces Wound Threshold by 1 or 2, respectively.


GENETIC DEFECT (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP or 20 CP

The morph is not genefixed, and in fact suffers
from a genetic disorder or other impairing mutation.
The player and gamemaster should agree on a defect
appropriate to their game. Some possibilities include:
heart disease, diabetes, cystic fibrosis, sickle-cell disease,
hypertension, hemophilia, or color blindness. A genetic
disorder that creates minor complications and/or occa-
sional health problems would be worth 10 CP, a defect
that significantly impairs the character’s regular func-
tioning or that inflicts chronic health problems is worth
ZOV@P, lihcreamemaster must detesmume the exact
effects of the disorder on gameplay, as appropriate.

This trait is only available for flats.


IDENTITY CRISIS
Bonus: 10 CP

The character’s ego has trouble adapting itself to
the changed look of a new morph—they are stuck
with the mental image of their original body and
simply do not grow accustomed to their new face(s).
As a result, the character has difficulty identifying
themselves in the mirror, photos, surveillance feeds,
etc. They frequently forget the look and shape of their
current morph, acting inappropriately, describing
themselves by their original body, forgetting to duck
when walking through doorways, etc. This is primar-
ily a roleplaying trait, but the gamemaster may apply
appropriate modifiers (usually —10) to tests affected
by this inability to adapt.


ILLITERATE
Bonus: 10 CP

The character knows how to speak but has diffi-
culty reading or writing. Due to the entoptic-saturated
and icon-driven nature of transhuman society, they
are able to get by quite comfortably with this handi-
cap. Reduce the character’s Language skills by half
(round down) whenever reading or writing.


IMMORTALITY BLUES
Bonus: 10 CP

The character has lived so long—over 100 years—
they’re bored with life and now have difficulty moti-
vating themselves. They were old when longevity









Pm CHARACTER CREATION


149°



















<=>


CHARACTER CREATION





—


=














treatments first became available, survived the Fall,
and continue to soldier onward—though they find
it increasingly harder to care, take interest in things
around them, or fear final death. The character only
receives half the Moxie and Rez Points award for
completing motivational goals.

This trait may not be purchased by characters with
the infolife, uplift, or lost backgrounds.


IMPLANT REJECTION (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 5 (Level 1) or 15 (Level 2) CP

This morph does not accept implants well. At Level
1, any implants acquired are more expensive as they
required specialized anti-rejection treatments. Increase
the Cost category of the implant by one. At Level 2,
the morph cannot accept implants of any kind.


INCOMPETENT
Bonus: 10 CP

The character is completely incapable of perform-
ing a particular chosen active skill, no matter any
training they may receive. They may not buy this skill
during character creation or later advancement, and
the modifier for defaulting to the linked aptitude of
this particular skill is -10. This may not be used for
exotic weapon skills, and should be used for a skill
that could be of use to the character.


LEMON (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP

This trait is only available for synthetic morphs.
This particular morph has some unfixable flaws.
Once per game session (preferably at a time that will
maximize drama or hilarity), the gamemaster can call
for the character to make a MOX x 10 Test (using
their current Moxie score). If the character fails, the
morph immediately suffers 1 wound resulting from
Some mechanical failure, electrical clitch, or other
breakdown. This wound may be repaired as normal.


LOW PAIN TOLERANCE (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 20 CP

Pama@iesthe character's enemy. The character has
a very low threshold for pain tolerance and is more
severely impaired when suffering. Increase the modi-
fier for each wound take by an additional —-10 (so
the character suffers -20 with one wound, —40 with
another, and —60 with a third). Additionally, the
character suffers a -30 modifier on any test involving
pain resistance. The morph version of this trait is only
available for biomorphs.


MENTAL DISORDER
Bonus: 10 CP

You have a psychological disorder from a previous
traumatic experience in your life. Choose one of the
disorders listed on p. 211.


MILD ALLERGY (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 5 CP

The morph is allergic to a specific chosen allergen
(dust, dander, plant pollen, certain chemicals) and
suffers mild discomfort when exposed to it (eye irrita-
tion, sneezing, difficult breathing). Apply a -10 modi-
fier to all tests while the character remains exposed.
This trait is only available for biomorphs.


MODIFIED BEHAVIOR
Bonus: 5 (Level 1), 10 (Level 2), or 20 (Level 3) CP
The character has been conditioned via time-
accelerated behavioral control psychosurgery. This
is common among ex-felons, who have been condi-
tioned to respond to a specific idea or activity with
vehement horror and disgust, but may have occurred
for some other reason or even been self-inflicted.
At Level 1, the chosen behavior is either limited or
boosted, at Level 2 it is either blocked or encour-
aged, and at Level 3 it is expunged or enforced (see
p. 231 for details). This trait should only be allowed
for behaviors that are either limited or, if encouraged,
impact the character in a negative way.


MORPHING DISORDER

Bonus: 10 (Level 1), 20 (Level 2), or 30 (Level 3) CP
Adapting to new morphs is particularly challeng-

ing for this character. The character suffers a -10

modifier per level on Integration Tests (p. 271) and

Alienation Tests (p. 272).


NEURAL DAMAGE
Bonus: 10 CP

The character has suffered some type of neurologi-
cal damage that simply cannot be cured. The afflic-
tion is now part of the character’s ego and remains
with them even when remorphing. This damage may
have been inherited, it may have resulted from a
poorly designed morph or implant, or it may have
been inflicted by one of the TITAN nanoviruses that
targeted neural systems during the Fall (p. 384). The
gamemaster and player should agree on a specific
disorder appropriate to their game. Some possibili-
ties are:


e Partial aphasia (difficulty communicating or
using words)

e Color blindness

e Amusica (inability to make or understand music)

e Synaesthesia

e Logorrhoea (excessive use of words)

e Loss of face recognition

e Loss of depth perception (double range modifiers)

e Repetitive behavior

e Mood swings

e The inability to shift attention quickly


The gamemaster may decide to inflict modifiers
resulting from this affliction as appropriate.











NO CORTICAL STACK (MORPH TRAIT}
Bonus: 10 CP

The morph lacks the cortical stack that is common
to morphs of its type. This means the character cannot
be resleeved from the cortical stack if the character
dies, they can only be resleeved from a standard
backup. This trait is not available for flats.


OBLIVIOUS
Bonus: 10 CP

The character is particularly oblivious to events
around them or anything other than what their
attention is focused on. They suffer a -10 modi-
fier to Surprise Tests and their modifier for being
Distracted is —30 rather than the usual —20 (see
Basic Perception, p. 190).


ON THE RUN
Bonus: 10 CP

The character is wanted by the authorities of a
particular habitat/station or faction, who continue to
actively search for the character. They either commit-
ted a crime or somehow displeased someone in power.
The character deals with that faction in question at
their own risk and may occasionally be forced to deal
with bounty hunters.


DS] VULNERABILITY (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP

Something about the character’s mind makes
them particularly vulnerable to psi attack. They
suffer a -10 modifier when resisting such attacks.
The morph version of this trait may only be taken
by biomorphs.


REAL WORLD NAIVETE
Bonus: 10 CP

Due to their background, the character has very
limited personal experience with the real (physical)
world—or they have spent so much time in simul-
space that their functioning in real life is impaired.
They lack an understanding of many physical proper-
ties, social cues, and other factors that people with
standard human upbringings take for granted. This
lack of common sense may lead the character to
misunderstand how a device works or to misinterpret
someone’s body language.

Once per game session, the gamemaster may
intentionally mislead the character when giving
them a description about some thing or some social


interaction. This falsehood represents the charac- .


ter’s misunderstanding of the situation and should
be roleplayed appropriately, even if the player real-
izes the character’s mistake.

This trait should only be available to characters
with the infolife or re-instantiated backgrounds,
though the gamemaster may allow it for characters
who have extensive virtual reality/XP use in their
personal histories.


SEVERE ALLERGY (MORPH TRAIT)


Bonus: 10 (uncommon) or 20 (common) CP

The morph’s biochemistry suffers a severe allergic
reaction (anaphylaxis) when it comes into contact
(touched, inhaled, or ingested) with a specific allergen.
The allergen may be common (dust, dander, plant pollen,
certain foods, latex) or uncommon (certain drugs, insect
stings). The player and gamemaster should agree on an
allergen that fits the game. If exposed to the allergen,
the character breaks into hives, has difficulty to breath-
ing (-30 modifier to all actions), and must make a DUR
Test or go into anaphylactic shock (dying of respiratory
failure in 2d10 minutes unless medical care is applied).
This trait is only available to biomorphs.


SLOW LEARNER
Bonus: 10 CP

New skills are not easy for this character to pick
up. The character takes twice as long as normal to
improve skills or learn new ones (p. 152).


SOCIAL STIGMA (E60 OR MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP

An unfortunate aspect of the character’s back-
ground means that they suffer from a stigma in
certain social situations. They may be sleeved in
a morph viewed with repugnance, be a survivor of
the infamous Lost generation, or may be an AGI in
a post-Fall society plagued by fear of artificial intelli-
gence. In social situations where the character’s nature
is known to someone who view that nature with dis-
taste, fear, or repugnance, they suffer a —10 to —30
modifier (gamemaster’s discretion) to social skill tests.


TIMID
Bonus: 10 CP

This character frightens easily. They suffer a -10
modifier when resisting fear or intimidation.


UNATTRACTIVE (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP (Level 1), 20 CP (Level 2), 30 CP (Level 3)

In a time when good looks are easily purchased,
this morph is conspicuously ugly. As unattractiveness
is increasingly associated with being poor, backward,
or genetically defective, responses to a lack of good
looks range from distaste to horror. The character
suffers a -10 modifier on social tests for Level 1, —20
for Level 2, and —30 for Level 3.

Only biomorphs may take this trait. This modifier
does not apply to interactions with xenomorphs or
those with the infolife or uplift backgrounds. This
modifier may be purchased for uplift morphs, but at
half the bonus, and it is only effective against char-
acters with that specific uplift background (1.e., neo-
avians, neo-hominids, etc.).


UNCANNY VALLEY (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP

There is a point where synthetic human looks become
uncannily realistic and human-seeming, but they remain








—
=
fj
<—c
[Ll
i
c5
oc
Lj
—
a)
_
==
_
==
a5


—_
Ol
=—_











SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE


CHARACTER CREATION
=>


























just different enough that their looks seem creepy or even
repulsive—a phenomenon called the “uncanny valley.”
Morphs whose looks fall into this range suffer a -10
modifier on social skill tests when dealing with humans.
This modifier does not apply to interactions with xeno-
morphs or those with the infolife or uplift backgrounds.


UNFIT (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP (Level 1), 20 CP (Level 2)

The morph is either not optimized for health and/or
just in bad shape. Reduce the aptitude maximums for
Coordination, Reflexes, and Somatics by 5 (Level 1 )
or 10 (Level 2).


VR VERTIGO
Bonus: 10 CP

The character experiences intense vertigo and
nausea when interfacing with any type of virtual
reality, XP, or simulspace. Augmented reality has no
effect, but VR inflicts a -30 modifier to all of the char-
acter’s actions. Prolonged use of VR (gamemaster’s


discretion) may actually incapacitate the character
should they fail a WIL x 2 Test.


WEAK IMMUNE SYSTEM (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP

The morph’s immune system is susceptible to diseases,
drugs, and toxins. At Level 1, apply a -10 modifier
whenever making a test to resist infection or the effects
of a toxin or drug. At Level 2, increase this modifier to
—20. This trait is only available to biomorphs.


ZERO-6 NAUSEA (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP

This morph suffers from space sickness and does
not fair well in zero gravity. The character suffers a
-10 modifier in any microgravity climate. Additionally,
whenever the character is first getting acclimated or
anytime they must endure excessive movement in
microgravity, they must make a WIL Test or spend 1
hour incapacitated by nausea per 10 points of MoF.


CHARACTER ADVANCEMENT


As characters accomplish goals and gather experience
during gameplay, they accumulate Rez Points (see
Awarding Rez Points, p. 385). Rez Points may be used
to improve the character’s skills, aptitudes, and other
characteristics per the following rules. The costs for
spending Rez Points for advancement are the same as
the costs for spending Customization Points.


CHANGING MOTIVATION


It is only natural that over time a character’s driving
goals and interests will change. The character may
reach a turning point where they feel certain personal
agendas have been fulfilled and it is time to move on,
or they have failed and need to be discarded. New
urgencies or philosophies may have entered the
character’s life, or the character may have become


2 RP = 1 skill point (61-99)





disenchanted with particular memes and ideas they
previously took to heart.

Changing a character’s motivation does not cost
Rez Points, but it is something that should only
happen in accordance with roleplaying and with
life-altering events. Players should not be allowed
to simply switch their motivations at whim, there
should be a driving reason or explanation for doing
so. For this reason, changing a motivation should only
happen when the player and gamemaster discuss the
matter and both agree that the swap is appropriate to
the character’s development and circumstances.

If these conditions are met, the character simply
drops a previously held motivation and takes on a
new one. Only one motivation should be switched
out at a time.


SWITCHING MORPHS


Resleeving—switching from one morph to another—
is handled as an in-character interaction, not with Rez
Points. see Resleeving, p. 270


IMPROVING APTITUDES


Aptitudes may be raised with Rez Points at the cost of
10 RP per aptitude point. This represents the character’s
improvement in their core characteristics, gained from
exercise, learning, and experience. Aptitudes may not
be raised above 30 (bonuses from morphs, implants,
traits, or other sources do not count towards this total).

Raising the value of an aptitude also raises the
value of all linked skills by an equivalent amount. If
this raises any linked skills over 60, an additional
1 RP must be spent per linked skill over 60 (with the
exception of the character’s native language skill and
skills capped at 99).


IMPROVING SRILLS


Characters may also spend Rez Points to increase
existing skills or learn new ones. To improve an exist-
ing skill, the character must have successfully used that
skill in the recent past or must actively practice it in
order to get better, perhaps with the aid of an instruc-
tor. In the case of Knowledge skills, this means actively
studying. As a rough timeframe, this should require
around 1 week of learning per skill point. A number
of educational resources are freely available via the
mesh, though some areas of interest may be restricted


SPENDING REZ POINTS


15 RP = 1 Moxie point


“10RP=taptiudepoint =


5 RP = 1 psi sleight |


5 RP = 1 specialization |


| RP = 1 skill point (up to 60) ee


1 RP = 10 Rep








or hard to find. This can be handled via
roleplaying or designated as something the
character is doing during downtime between
sessions. If the gamemaster decides that a
character has not put enough effort into
improving a skill, they may call for more
practice/study.

The cost to increase a skill is 1 RP per skill
point, and no skill may be increased over 99.
No skill may be raised by more than 5 points
per month. When a character’s skill reaches
the level of expertise (skill of 60+), however,
they tend to reach a plateau where improve-
ment progresses more slowly and even con-
sistent practice and study have diminished
returns. In this case, the Rez Point cost per
skill point doubles (i.e., 2 RP = +1 skill point).
When a skill reaches 80, improvement slows
down even further—a skill of 80+ may not
be increased by more than 1 point per month.


LEARNING NEW SRILLS


Similarly, to learn a new skill, the character
must actively study/practice and/or seek
instruction. No test to learn is required,
unless the period of study was hampered
or in some way deficient, in which case the
gamemaster may call for a COG x 3 Test
to pick up the new skill. Otherwise, once a
character has spent approximately a week
learning a new skill, they may purchase their
first skill point at the usual cost (1 RP). The
skill is bought up from the aptitude rating,
per normal. Once a new skill is acquired, it is
raised according to the standard rules above.


SPECIALIZATIONS


Specializations may be purchased for exist-
ing skills, as long as that skill is at least
rating 30. Specializations require a total
of 1 month of training. The cost to learn a
specialization is 5 RP. Only 1 specialization
may be purchased per skill.


IMPROVING MOntE


Moxie may be raised at the cost of 15 RP per
Moxie point. The maximum to which Moxie
may be raised is 10.


GAINING/LOSING TRAITS


At the gamemaster’s discretion, both positive
and negative traits may be acquired or lost
during gameplay, though such changes should
be rare and only made in accordance with the
storyline and unfolding events in the game.
Both positive and negative traits may be
picked up by a character during gameplay
as a consequence of something that did or
something that happened to them. In the
case of a positive trait, the character must


ee





immediately spend Rez Points equal to the
trait’s CP cost for the privilege (whether they
wanted the new trait or not). If the character
has no unspent RP available, they must pay
out immediately from any future RP they
earn until the debt is paid off. In the case
of a negative trait, however, the character is
simply saddled with the new flaw—they do
not acquire any extra RP for gaining the
negative trait.

Getting rid of traits is somewhat more dif-
ficult. Positive traits may be lost due to unfor-
tunate effects on the character, as the game-
master sees fit. Such lost positive traits are
simply gone—the character does not receive
any Rez Point reimbursement. Negative traits
are occasionally eliminated in the same way,
but more typically they can only be worked
off through the hard work and diligence of a
character that seeks to overcome their handi-
cap. Such endeavors should require weeks if
not months of effort on the character’s part,
with appropriate roleplaying and possibly
some difficult tests. In fact, overcoming such
traits could be the source of an adventure.
Once a gamemaster feels that the character
has made a strong-enough effort, the charac-
ter may pay a number of Rez Points equal
to the trait’s original CP bonus to negate it.
Note, however, that some negative traits may
simply not be discarded, no matter what the
character does.


IMPROVING REP


Reputation is something that can be
increased with appropriate roleplaying and
actions during gameplay (see Reputation
Gain and Loss, p. 385). Characters that
prefer to handle their Rep-boosting activities
“offscreen,” however, can simply spend Rez
Points to boost their score(s). Each RP spent
boosts the character’s Rep by +10 in a single
network. Only one such boost may be made
to a single rep network per month.


MAING CREDIT


Rez Points may be spent on Credit at a ratio
of 1 RP for 1,000 Credits. This represents
income the character has earned “offscreen”
or during downtime, such as from odd jobs,
selling off possessions, and so on.


IMPROVING Pol


Characters who have the Psi trait, (p. 147)
may purchase new sleights (see Psi-Chi
NIGoVisw e223) aie Me nCOst Obl) sw cr
sleight. Sleights must be learned through
study, training, and practice, requiring
approximately 1 month per sleight. No more
than one sleight may be learned per month.

















Background: Original Space Colonist

Faction: Anarchist

Morph: Bouncer

Motivations: +Anarchism +Open Source +Tech-Hacking


TRAITS
Ego: Oblivious @
Morph: Limber (Level 1) m


Starting Credit: 200

Implants: Access Jacks, Basic
Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack, Electrical

REP Sense, Grip Pads, Oxygen


@-rep: 60 Reserve, Prehensile Feet,

I-rep: 40 Wrist-Mounted Tools @

a t:) | a) Gear: Automechs (2), Backup
Insurance (1 month), Engineer

EQUIPMENT Nanoswarm, Fabber, Fixer


Armor: Crash Suit [4/6]
Primary Weapon: Freezer
(100 shots) i


Nanoswarm, Muse, Vacsuit
(Light Smartfabric, 5/5)








AF Bp BON
Academics: Engineering _—UlcOR it, Tm 65
Academics: Nanotechnology _to6 Sao 75
Academics: Physics rc i | aN 65
Art: Sculpture Jt ee a, 55
Mees SREF) CGO sO
Hardware: Aerospace oc he aa 00
Hardware: Armorer —~COG— BH 60
Hardware: Electronics hr sa 65
Hardware: Robotics Reg | i ey 65
EST CoG 0 SE
Interests: Martian Beers ood | aia 90
Interests: Robot Models Swe: | se 00
Om ikeriien COG 55 5 Rt
Interfacing coc | 5 ia 00
Language: Native English INT) 85 85
Language: Mandarin HiT co a 60
Networking: Autonomists Ss | 72 | 70
Networking: Firewall Ns a 35
Networking: Scientists ‘sv | 3 | Vi a0
Perception iT Ss a 5


AGH! LEUH


APTITUDES





THILLY


Pilot: Aircraft LAS | 45

Pilot: Spacecraft TEs S10)

Profession: Habitat Systems | 0) | a) | | 65

Profession: Spacecraft Systems coc er | 5s 65
Programming (Nanofabrication) | “llc | alu) | | 65 (75)

Scrounging oo od a 45


Spray Weapons


You're an old-school hacker—the
kind that likes to take technologi-
cal toys, dismantle them, modify
them, rebuild them, and then use
them in ways the designers never
imagined. When you're not too
busy building crazy robotic sculp-
tures for art performance pur-
poses, your skills are in demand
because you can fix almost any-
thing, improve it, or even build it
from scratch. You advocate for


“Don't worry, it works; these things run themselves anyway.
| voided the warranty, but anything loaded with DRM like that is broken to start with.”


45


open-source technology that
anyone can use or modify as they
see fit and you support decen-
tralized models of peer collabo-
ration—nothing pisses you off
more than restrictive proprietary
tech with which you or others
cant meddle. You take a hands-on
approach to most problems, but
you become so engrossed in your
projects that you tend to be oblivi-
ous to the world around you.





Academics: Astrobiology COG a
Academics: Chemistry — ae
Academics: Engineering | a
Academics: Geology | @alt) | as Db.
Academics: Physics —
Academics: Xenoarcheology __ |
Art: Architecture Bir | 4s
Beam Weapons ——_——











Gir! som) 355
Demolitions ec a ey eae 90
Fray i 45
Ge SREF 0 C25 tC
Interests: Alien Relics Looe a ya 90
OOH ekthice COG) 555 ity
Interfacing Rec ha aw 25

Investigation | I) aa |] 70 (80)
Tr «sav. O30té‘(; déOUC@CSE
Language: Native French ae aay a5
Language: English ra aS 45
Networking: Autonomists a ee 25
Networking: Firewall Sos" ea 30
Networking: Hypercorps a ae 39
Networking: Scientists Sa D4)

Perception| |p J 2 | 3 | 45 (55)
Rloeoena REF 35 (RRR
Pilot: Groundcraft REF 50 90
Profession: Excavation me |. & ]| a0
Profession: Forensics coe | ss Thea 60
MAOSSSIOMMESIOLAVEN ALLL coc oie 45
Protocol Sa a a 45
Research Coe S55 ae 60


Sense


You are convinced that something
strange is going on in the galaxy.
Despite the Factors and signs of
dead alien civilizations like the
Iktomi, the sheer mathematical
odds insist that there should be
more life in the galaxy. So where
is it? Your goal is to find out, and in
pursuit of this you study the relics
left behind on various exoplanets.
Equal parts conspiracy theorist,


treasure hunter, and scientist,
you have the skills and training to
decode the evidence and artifacts
left behind by unknown entities
and life forms. You are a valued
expert for gatecrashing expedi-
tions, but you avoid working for
hypercorps because you believe,
like other argonauts, that any dis-
coveries made should be available
to all. Hi


Background: Original Space Colonist


Faction: Argonaut
Morph: Exalt














Motivations: +Exploration +Research (Alien Civilizations)


+Technoprogressivism


TRAITS

Ego: Enemy (Rival Xenoarche-
ologist), Mental Disorder
(Impulse Control), Mental
Disorder (Insomnia), Morphing
Disorder, Psi (Level 2) m


SLEIGHTS

Psi-Chi: Ambience Sense, Grok,
Pattern Recognition @

Psi-Gamma: Omni Awareness,


Static, Thought Browse @
REP
@-rep: 40
c-rep: 40
e-rep: 20
I-rep: 40
r-rep: 60


EQUIPMENT

Armor: Vacsuit (Standard
Smartfabric) [7/7]

Primary Weapon: Stunner

Starting Credit: 4,250 M

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic
Mesh Inserts, Cortical Stack,
Echo Location, Medichines,
WWTatcTantolaltomeNUrefantcvarecialelan

Gear: Backup Insurance
(1 month), Cleaner
Nanoswarm, Disassembler
Nanoswarm, Electronic Rope,
Forensics Kit, Klar (1 dose),
Mobile Lab, Muse,
Servitor Bot, Shelter Dome,
Smart Dust, Specimen
Container, Specs, Utilitool


“T've got a bad feeling about this. These tools are very similar to the ones we
recovered from the ruins on that binary system exoplanet last year.”


brn oUUHL —— J mis







=X
mat





Background: Martié
Faction: Barsoomian
Morph: Synth


Motivations: -Censorship +Martian Liberation +Sousveillance


TRAITS

Ego: Minor Addiction (Narcoal-
gorithms), Modified Behavior
(Boosted Stalking Tendencies) m

Morph: Social Stigma (Clanking
Masses), Uncanny Valley


REP

@-rep: 40
c-rep: 40
e-rep: 20
I-rep: 40
r-rep: 60
EQUIPMENT


Armor: Synth Shell [2/2] m
Primary Weapon: Shredder
(100 shots) m


Starting Credit: 1,450 @
Enhancements: Access Jacks,


Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
Stack, Cyberbrain, Enhanced
Hearing, Enhanced Smell,
Enhanced Vision, Lidar,
NTatevaneyal(omeNUlepanevalechale)ap
Radar, I-Ray Emitter @


Gear: Backup Insurance


(1 month), Covert Ops Tool,
Facial/Image Recognition
Software, Gnat Bots (3),
Linkstate Narcoalgorithm,
Microbugs (5), Muse,

Radio Booster, Repair Spray,
Saucer Bot, Speck Bots (2),


Smart Dust, Tracking Software,


Trike Exoskeleton





TMILLY


Bane


Academics: Memetics ” COG |: Baia Sa "5
Academics: Political Science eens | NO a0
Academics: Psychology mre | Ne] 45
Art: Performance Nie ee 60

Art: Writing Sti | ae 00

ce SAV 650 eR

ia feF 4

Freerunning | a aa 00
iNT 45s

Hardware: Robotics coc Ei oo
fier COO 35 [RRR

esta coe A

Interests: Inner System Rumors coc oa 59
Interests: Martian Politics COG 5B 6
Interests: Post-Fall History COG 45 45
Interfacing Ley 40

Intimidation | SA 20

Investigation Tih aii 60

Mieses SAV 60 (iy

Language: Native Mandarin int’ so] 90
Language: English Lint | 40 | Wj 40
Language: Hindi Tr SS Fe 40
Networking: Autonomists Pe a a Fs | 50
Networking: Criminal] SA) | [40
Networking: Hypercorps sav so _ 90
Networking: Media sav | 60 = “@ 60
Perception iNT | 50 || 90

Persuasion SAV 500 90

Pilot: Aircraft REF 50 £5 00

Pilot: Groundcraft REF 20 #45 25
Profession: Social Engineering [coe | 50 | 50
Protocol SAV 400 40

Research (cog | 55 | aa

SprayWeapons| #8t) | | | 30


Unarmed Combat


Thanks to the mesh, lifelogging, XP, and
ubiquitous surveillance, journalism is a
crowdsourced industry—everyone Is a
reporter. Hard work, skill, and attitude
can still earn you a name and recog-
nition, however. Your committment to
old-school investigative journalism and
raking the muck that the power brokers
and influence peddlers wallow in has
helped expose the puppet strings behind


“What? No, I'm not recording.
Anything you have to say about the Hellas massacre Is strictly between you and me.”


the cyberdemocratic facade. You make
a sport out of bypassing the hypercorp
content filters and initiating subver-
sive memes. Equal parts investigator,
paparazzi, adventurer, and activist, you
embrace a gonzo journalist style that
borders on entertainment. You prefer
synths because they are innocuous and
employ numerous drones and electronic
spies to obtain the real story.


BRUIAEA OLIEMUA LA
APTITUDE





silks


DUR | DR | INIT
8 (10) | 40 (50) | 80(100) | 7 ai 53 | 6(7)


MOX| TT L IR WI








HL


Academics: Sais: aa 10


80

Academics: Nanotechnology ca 10 70
Art: Bodysculpting | |) a 50

Beam Weapons Moor, 45 Z 00

Deception =i. 30

aoa REF 0

Free Fall REF 55 a)


Hardware: Aerospace Rie ar a. 50
Interests: Black Market Drugs ere eS ees 50
Interests: Genetics Research ec | SNS 70
Interests: Morph Designs i he ae hd)
emiarn COG 20 42,10 (RN

NTE SAV 40 = 10 40

Language: Native Arabic Tite Saw 90
Language: English Th ei ee 45
Medicine: General Practice COG = 55 10 65
Medicine: Gene Therapy Scie es we 75
Medicine: Nanomedicine Soe a ae it
Medicine: Trauma Surgery) (Wc | a0} 0) ) 60
Networking: Autonomists SAV || 35) 2 oo
Networking: Criminal NW) 5 i 45
Networking: Scientists TVs it Bp
Perception NTe as. zs 900

Pilot: Spacecraft REF 25 Z5
Profession: Lab Technician Soe so ae 60
Profession: Medical Care| @ut) | 29 | J) | 65
Programming coc | 60 awn 70
Psychosurgery ies | oy 60

Research coc | 45 Iie! aS

Seco ateriate ANT |< 50° ae | 59


Some might consider you a mad
scientist, but they simply lack
the vision and moral flexibility to
understand the meaning of your
work. You are not just a scien-
tist—you are an artist, dedicated
to defining the shapes and abilities
of transhumans as they transition
to the posthuman. Because your
work is sometimes controversial,
you prefer the brinker lifestyle,
working in isolation where you are
not restricted by laws or customs.


There are some who find your work
intriguing or valuable, of course,
and so you have acquired influen-
tial backers. In truth, you are an
expert when it comes to designing
and manipulating biomorphs, and
sO your services are sometimes in
demand when it comes to explain-
ing unusual and exotic transfor-
mations. Your patrons, of course,
sometimes call on your expertise
from time to time in exchange for
bankrolling your work.





Background: Isolate

Faction: Brinker

Morph: Menton

Motivations: +Artistic Expression (Morph Design)
+Morphological Freedom +Research (Neogenetics)


AES

Ego: Black Mark (Lunars,
Level 1), Patron (Gerontocrat),
Psi Defense @


Starting Credit: 1,900 m

Implants: Access Jacks, Basic
Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Circadian Regulation, Corti-
cal Stack, Eidetic Memory,

REP Ghostrider Module, Hyper-


@-rep: 30 Linguist, Math Boost, Medich-
(i: | a0 ines, Multi-Tasking
to) | Gear: Backup Insurance
r-rep: 60 (1 month), Dr. Bot, Drive

(5 doses), Ego Bridge, Fabber,
EQUIPMENT Frequency (2 doses),


Armor: Armor Clothing [3/4] @
Primary Weapon: Stunner &


Guardian Angel Bot, Muse,
INETalelerclalerste[ekse |


“It's alive! It's alive! Wait—no—well, it was alive. Let's try that again.”








t = € A)


Background: Re-instantiated
Faction: Criminal

Morph: Swarmanoid
Motivations: +Fame +Subverting Technology +Thrill-Seeking


TRAITS

Ego: Edited Memories, On the
Run (Morningstar Constella-
tion), Right at Home


REP

OE (:) | Hee)
c-rep: 20
g-rep: 50
I-rep: 50
EQUIPMENT


Armor: None [0/0] @
Primary Weapon: None &
Starting Credit: 5,250 m


—


Enhancements: Access Jacks,


Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
Stack, Cyberbrain, Electrical
Sense, Enhanced Vision, Lidar,
Magnetic System, Mental Speed,
Mnemonic Augmentation, Na-
noscopic Vision, Radar, Swarm
Composition, T-Ray Emitter m


Gear: Automech, Backup Insur-


ance (1 month), EMP Grenade,
Exploit Software, Fake Ego
JDPMCTUrclaclt-lam=ievemClUrclaclt-vars
Nanoswarm, Saboteur
Nanoswarm, Servitor Bot,
Sniffer Software, Spoof
Software, Tactical Network
Software, Tracking Software m





— CHUTE


He TUD Es






TMILLY


Bante


Academics: Computer Science C06 a0
Academics: Cryptography merry | NO 60
Academics: Engineering masa 50

=_— Art: Electronic Music Lie | ei ee Ys 45
Beam Weapons | (su) |) | 40

ce «SAV 655 CR

a feF tc

: Re «SCREF)6= =i <ketCO
Hardware: Electronics co ii aa 60
Hardware: Industrial co a ia 45
Hardware: Robotics coc | Vi 00
Impersonation sa | Sn ra 45

ieee | cOO co tT

eS coe 0

Interests: Hacker Mesh Forums COG 55 59
Interests: Online Banking Tw i 50
Interests: Triad Economics rr ta 45
Interfacing coe | 5s | 00

fume SAV 30 [RN

Mises SAV 40 -RN

Language: Native Russian INT 85 | 85
Networking: Autonomists eurGA Viorel 0 (| 40
Networking: Criminals Sar ae 60
Networking: Firewall ig) \" | | i, [a 40
Networking: Hypercorps eS a ee |e "| 40
Perception Tas Sa | 90

Hoeeceua REF 30 (RW

Pilot: Groundcraft REF 200 20

Profession: Accounting "toc | s | gj 50
Profession: Security Operations} @0e) | 29 | | 55
Profession: Social Engineering (coc so | @ 60
Programming toc | 60 60

Research _coc | 6o | 60


There's never been a system you
couldn't crack, given time. That's what
got you put away the first time, but now
that you have a second chance you'll
never get caught again. You take pride
at circumventing firewalls and mesh
defenses—nothing surpasses the thrill
of digital trespassing and accessing
secrets. Such intrusions are illegal,


of course, but you ve never let moral-
ity get in your way. In fact, you make a
good living selling your talents to crimi-
nal groups like the triads and ID Crew.
You've never been a joiner, though—
you remain strictly freelance. In fact,
you ll sell your services to almost
anyone—it's the thrill of the hack that
really counts.


“You call this secure? Maybe it would keep me out if | was a particularly slow child.”


EA AUP IA SHLUGUL EN
AD TTUDES





Academics: Accounting “COG oo |
Academics: Astrophysics CoG 45
Academics: Psychology cos 40 |












Hee SOM 45 #5 50

Tres SAV 50 ~~ 50

iy feF 0

Free Fall | 30

Gunnery Print|) 47) | 45

Hardware: Aerospace a 00
Infiltration eco eS || ae 45

STH COGS SS ES

Interests: Black Markets coe || 5 ae ay)
Interests: Criminal Groups| (WW) | eid] 85
Interests: Inner System Law COG BH 59
NTRS Sa haw 40

Kinetic Weapons con ei ae 00
Language: Native Korean INT | 85 | 5 & 90
Language: English Lae wey | 90

Tale [etexe (cen Oxclalcelaleesis rae ae | 45
Navigation “INT | 2 | = 39

Networking: Autonomists “SAV | 5S 7 do
Networking: Criminal TW Ss a i
Networking: Hypercorps sv | 3s ir 35
Wid coo)|60 35

Perception air Sa | 50

MORENO Sa ae 60

Pilot: Aircraft REF 45 0 45

Pilot: Groundcraft [REF | so Wie? 00

Pilot: Spacecraft REF 60 60
Profession: Appraisal toc | 4 1 45
Profession: Customs Procedures ec Sis | 90
60


Profession: Smuggling Tricks mT Sa


Despite the failures of statist capi-
talism, you're a die-hard believer in
free markets—and when markets
aren't free, you have no qualms
about undermining them.

You make a living supplying the
inner system and Jovian black mar-
kets, whether that means running
blockades, smuggling contraband,


or pirating nanofab blueprints. In
an age of automated machines,
you re a damn good pilot, and you
can talk or shoot your way out of
messy situations. Whereas many
people look down on synthmorphs,
you embrace the post-biological life
and its freedom from chemical and
biological dependencies.


Background: Re-instantiated
Faction: Extropian
Morph: Slitheroid





Motivations: +Libertarianism +Subverting Authority +Wealth


AS

Ego: Danger Sense, Edited Memo-
ries, Neural Damage (Repetitive
Behavior), On the Run (Jovians)


REP

@-rep: 50
c-rep: 30
(th A) | A
I-rep: 50
EQUIPMENT


Armor: Light Combat Armor [14/12] m
Primary Weapon: SMG Firearm

(100 rounds regular ammo) &
Starting Credit: 1,400 @


“Sorry about that, but | gotta look out for numero uno. You understand.”


Enhancements: 360-degree Vision,


Access Jacks, Anti-Glare, Basic
Mesh Inserts, Chameleon Skin,
Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, En-
hanced Vision, Grip Pads, Hidden
Compartment, Lidar, Light Combat
AV uate) om \VALalcTAnrelaucemANule]aalcdalechalelap
Mobility System: Snake (4/16; 8/32
rolling), Radar, T-Ray Emitter @


Gear: Backup Insurance (1 month),


Dazzler, Fake Ego ID, Guardian Bot,

NW TTalreieUlasm ate\el(on acl aer-ksitclam af al(en @

fe fosy=9 Pm eae) at=]0) (cM ea tclalcWm atclel(oM sLeleys te
er, Repair Spray, Slip (1 application),
Smart Clothing, Utilitool, Vibroblade,
White Noise Machine


——


|
4


Background: Fall Evacuee
Faction: Hypercorp
Morph: Splicer


~A
=


Ay





ay


.
J)


-


h |


v
Ss


i
’
| i
q all
a


Motivations: +Personal Career +Technoprogressivism +Wealth


AVS

Ego: Enemy (Rival Criminal) @
Hn

@-rep: 20

dt) |

e-rep: 20

i) 30

g-rep: 50

I-rep: 10

EQUIPMENT


Armor: Bioweave (Light) + Armor


Vest [8/9] @


Primary Weapon: Laser Pulser


Starting Credit: 2,650 m
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic


Mesh Inserts, Bioweave (Light),


Cortical Stack, Eelware, Endo-

crine Control, Enhanced Vision,

WKeYol To aTiatexspm \EcIarel@larcle(ekse |
Gear: Backup Insurance

(1 month), Cleaner Nano-

swarm, Fake Ego ID, Guard-

ian Bot, Muse, Nanobandage,

NEeVatedeRsyasteane) mm OhVis}aleyene

Grenade, Servitor Bot, Shred-

der (100 shots),

Vacsuit (Standard),

Tactical Network Software @


HYPERLURP BLACK HIRRAE EEA
: ADTITUDES





als DP DUN
Academics: Economics uit Vt 60


THILLY


Academics: Sociology ecm | NO 55
Beam Weapons mercy |e NS 40

iy som 35 (RE

en SAV 660i

my REF 45s

Freerunning Tit he oo

Dieu coo 40 (yiRR

[ie coo 40D

Interests: Black Markets coc i i 60
Interests: Inner System Law cod | i 50
Interests: Smuggling COG 55 a
Interfacing cot a 30

Tee sAV O80té‘“‘(;”COdRIS

Language: Native Portugese aes 89
Language: English hn i 45
Networking: Autonomists Sar a 50
Networking: Criminal | SEW aS] 65
Networking: Hypercorps sav | co | Ga 65
Networking: Media sa 00
Perception int | 50 | 50


Persuasion


SAV 605 EE


Pilot: Groundcraft REF 250 75
Profession: Appraisal Conn Pon Sa 60
Profession: Con Schemes ie ea ae 55
Profession: Info Brokerage Sr Saas 50
er) sav. 55ht(‘<é‘“(§;:CW@RCN

Scrounging JI == 40

SAEED Teas too 3s 35
Thaker SOM 55 [RBS


The inner system Is a nice place
to live, but it has its share of
inequalities. Someone has to pro-
vide the goods and services that
the poor and clanking masses
need, and you re more than will-
ing to meet their needs—and
make some profit of your own
while you're at it. You work as
an exchange point between


the hackers, smugglers, and
criminal cartels on one side and
everyone who needs or craves
the restricted and illegal on the
other. You keep a step ahead of
the law, providing what you see
as an essential role in society
despite the official rules and
restrictions that enhance your
profit margins.


“T may have that, but it's very hard to acquire. How much Is it worth to you?”


JUAN oPY




















Morph Bonus


Aye
mm


_ C06
COG
SOM





Academics: Cryptography
Academics: Linguistics |
Blades |


Deception |


Demolitions | #0c
Disguise | )\
REF
REF
SOM
SAV
Coo
COG
COG
COG
COG
SAV —
INT
INT
SAV
SAV
SAV
Palming A5
Perception ae


Fray

Free Fall

Freerunning

aalelsvacvevar-veneya

Naviliencvereya

Infosec

Interests: Autonomist Groups
Interests: Criminal Groups
Interests: Hypercorp Politics
Kinesics

Language: Native Spanish
Language: English
Networking: Criminals
Networking: Ecologists
Networking: Hypercorps














Profession: Security Systems


ohlLLg


Anite





















Profession: Smuggling Tricks cog)


Profession: Spycraft |


Spray Weapons | ni al
CEU menial SUI


You're a dedicated soldier to the
bioconservative cause, convinced
that unrestricted technology is
driving the human race to extinc-
tion. The Jovian Republic has
trained you and modified you to
serve their interests, whether that
means infiltrating a hypercorp
to steal its secrets or sabotag-
ing an autonomist habitat. As a
skilled professional in service to




















4
,—=
a
SS
ae ||
ee | |
ae
i |
Sai





the republic, you have no qualms
about using technologies that
you otherwise want restricted or
banned, and you appreciate the
irony of using the tools of transhu-
man monsters against them. You
prefer flats, and you consider It a
point of pride that you sleeve into
a non-genetically modified body
with no cortical stack and still kick
transhuman ass.


/


Background: Original Space Colonist
Faction: Jovian
Morph: Flat





i


Motivations: —Anarchism +Bioconservativism —Technoprogressivism


TRAITS

Ego: Modified Behavior (Blood-
thirsty, boosted), Morphing
BYRstoygelsym(M=\Vc) On _|

Morph: Genetic Defect
(Heart Disease),
Unattractive (Level 1) m


REP

c-rep: 50
e-rep: 30
(th A) | A
EQUIPMENT


Armor: Body Armor
(with Thermal Dampening)
+Second Skin [14/16] @


“Not so immortal now, are we, frankenfreak scum!”


Primary Weapon: Heavy Pistol
Railgun (100 AP rounds) m

Starting Credit: 700 @

Implants: Neurachem (Level 1), m

Gear: Backup Insurance
(1 month), Fake Ego IDs (2),
Frag Grenades (10), Invisibility
Cloak, Liquid Thermite, Minia-
ture Radio Farcaster,
MRDR (1 dose), Oxytocin-A (1
dose), Radio Booster, Portable
QE Communicator with Low-
OF Tor-Ke NV MONULolimatctclaele
Speck Bots (3), Specs, Tactical
Network Software, Wasp
Knife, White Noise Machine







Background: Lost
Faction: Lunar
Morph: Futura
Motivations: +Personal Development +Self-Protection +Vengeance


AUS

Ego: Mental Disorder (Borderline
Personality), Mental Disorder
(Obsessive-Compulsive),
Mental Disorder (PTSD),
Psi (Level 2), Social Stigma
(Lost) ml


SLEIGHTS

Psi-Chi: Downtime, Emotional
Control, High Pain Threshold,
Taksielaleqem Claleve)arsxer(elUrsm mcyclom |

Psi-Gamma: Deep Scan,
Ego Sense, Psychic Stab,
Scramble, Subliminal


REP

(i: | a]
e-rep: 10
td A) |


EQUIPMENT

Armor: Body Armor (Light) [10/10]

Primary Weapon: Agonizer @

Starting Credit: 2,700 @

Implants: Adrenal Boost,
Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh
Inserts, Cortical Stack, Eidetic
Memory, Emotional Dampers,
maarcVaceasX¢Mulctclalale pm saalarcyalersze
Smell, Enhanced Vision,
Medichines, Oracles @

Gear: Backup Insurance
(1 month), Disabler, Facial/
Image Recognition Software,
Fake Ego ID, Muse, Shock Ba-
ton, Sniffer Software, Tactical
Network Software, Taggant
Nanoswarm, Track Software,
Tracker Dye (1 dose), Twitch
(1 dose)


Morph Bonus


UIA LOU HULL


APTITUDE





THILLY


Banus


Academics: Neurology "coe OSS @0
Academics: Psychology meer | Nee | 65
Art: Dance CNT aa a. a 00

Art: Painting i | ek Sle 50

Beam Weapons C00 Bact Se 60

UA som 4 = RE

Er wi 5 810 ae

ie REF O50


Freerunning


som 55 [RE


ie Coon So aL
eS coe Se SE


Interests: Conspiracies PM: | 2 |


60

Interests: Hypercorp Projects (coc Sia 60
Interests: TITANs | ele |) a) | a] 65
Due SAV 20 Rs

Investigation Sia, BD

NTRS hae a 45

Language: Native English INT | 8 | 90
Language: Japanese cnt | es ai 90
Language: Hindi Tet aS S| 30

Networking: Criminal] SA) |) el) [3] 35
Networking: Ecologists 2 ee eal 45
Networking: Hypercorps LSS ie See 00
Perception la a | 45

Profession: Ego Hunting toc || ssa 60
Profession: Inner System Law “coc | = | 5 50
60


Profession: Police Procedures (cog | 55 | 5s


meets Wi 40 #10 (ee
Research COG 55 60

Se int 55

Unarmed Combat| SO) | 39 |} | 55


You survived your accelerated
growth experience as a member
of the Lost generation, the col-
lapse of the project, and the scan-
dal and witchhunts that followed.
You've immersed yourself in a
ATeAVAVAMILACMEcHALOM(OLSTATNIAVAM COM NVANYZOLU MN OLULE
your particular skills and talents to
use tracking people as a bounty
hunter—a daunting task consider-
ing that your targets can change
not only their faces but their bodies


“Hello, doctor, you're a hard man to find.


| have some questions about some children that I'd like to ask you.”


and sometimes even their memo-
ries and mannerisms. All the while
NZOLUMVLLOLUI NVM NTL MYOLU mei AM NERC) AY
FVALOMOLUL CHIT aN=LONVA=) mm UATOeSeMVAVALOMVVESTALE
to track your kind down. You are
not content to be a victim or a mer-
cenary for others, however. Slowly
but surely you are amassing infor-
mation on those responsible for
the Lost project—for what they
did to you—and some day you will
make them pay.









coG ae Litt REF_


ey: \ 4) ae








Base | 2! 15 nit 15 | 20 "
Morph Bonus ee
Total} 20 10 15 15 | 20


Academics: Anthropology "COG rae...
Academics: Computer Science ako | —~
Noiiteaeeie COG 50  —
Mate? INT 50
i SAVE
Fray a 35D
ie REF 30 ME





50
50
40





Gunnery woo dldllCU EE
Impersonation Siar ee...

Infiltration rr ri ae 7
eT CoG oO
Interests: Crime Groups Re ki aaa )
Interests: Cultural Trends rrr he 45
Interfacing Co | Sia es 90
Investigation INT) = 60 60
wre sav Ccoté‘<éi‘ié‘«éRz«s
Language: Native English Tint so | = 90
Networking: Criminals SASS 50
Networking: Firewall | SA) 2 | 40
Networking: Hypercorps Sari a 40
Perception i a 45
Gloecena «REF 55 [MRR


Meee RER 55
Goatees REF 30 | —
Profession: Forensics (amC0CH— |! GO





ct





Profession: Police Procedures Lit |—_ ]| 00
Profession: Security Systems| @0e J 7 | | 45
Programming COG = =660 0” 60

Research “coc | 0 ie el)


You are a digital life form, coded
to be “friendly” and molded with
transhuman mindsets and world
views. You resent the backlash
against AGIs and criticize resur-
gent human tendencies towards
technophobia and xenophobia as
harmful to the emerging transhu-
man society. You immerse your-
self fully in transhuman culture
and the data it produces, bath-
Ing in its richness. You excel at


“Oh this is great, | think | found it! What is a ‘red light district?’ Oh, | see.”


sifting, sorting, and correlating
this data, in fact, selling your ser-
vices as a mesh-based investiga-
tor. For most of your inquiries, a
physical form isn't necessary, as
you acquire data on the physi-
cal world through sensors. When
physical interaction is called
for, however, you can operate
or jam a bot or catch a ride ina
ghostrider module or, as a last
resort, ina meat puppet.


Background: Infolife
Faction: Mercurial
Morph: Infomorph














Motivations: +AGI Rights +Personal Development +Sousveillance


TRAITS
Ego: Real World Naiveté, Social
Stigma (AGI)


REP

a t:) | AO
(ta :) |
I-rep: 20
EQUIPMENT


Armor: None [0/0] @
Primary Weapon: None @
Starting Credit: 250 @


Gear: AR Illusions Software,


Backup Insurance (1 month),
Covert Ops Tool, Creepy,
Exploit Software, Facial/Im-
age Recognition Software,
Gnat Bots (2), Guardian Bot,
Holographic Projector, Juice
Narcoalgorithm, Saucer Bot,
Scout Nanoswarm, Servitor
Bot, Smart Dust, Sniffer Soft-
ware, Speck Bots (3), Spoof
Software, Tactical Network
Software, Tracking Software,
XP Clips (5)








Background: Uplift (Octopus)
Faction: Mercurial
Morph: Octomorph
Motivations: +Exploration +Reclaiming Earth +Uplift Rights


TRAITS
Ego: Ambidextrous (x 2) &
Morph: Limber (Level 2) m


REP

@-rep: 30
c-rep: 20
e-rep: 40
g-rep: 40
I-rep: 20
EQUIPMENT


Armor: Crash Suit [3/4 or 4/6] with
Chameleon Coating @

Primary Weapon: Kinetic Pistol
(100 rounds standard ammo) m

Starting Credit: 400 @


Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic


Mesh Inserts, Chameleon
Skin, Cortical Stack, Direction
Sense, Echolocation, Electrical
Sense, Enhanced Vision, Grip
Pads, Medichines, Oracles,
Radiation Sense @


Gear: Backup Insurance


(1 month), Breadcrumb Posi-
tioning System, Disassembly
Tools, Mobile Lab, Muse, Nano-
detector, Radio Booster, Shel-
ter dome, Specimen Container,
Superthermite Charge, Tactical
Network Software, Vacsuit
(Standard), X-Ray Emitter m


Advantages: 8 Arms, Beak Attack


(Oe MTOM BAVARUKY- M1 Olar-lanststem Celinereyi
skill), Ink Attack (blinding),
360-degree Vision


HIERUURIAL SLAY EIOER
ADTITUDE!







TMILLY


Bans


Academics: Engineering "COG is "5
Academics:,Materials Science meee | Nee | 8
ar eaoeies COG | 50 5 [RE

Art Ank Painting) |] 50

CTT SONS SO ED
ENE «cos os 45


Exotic Ranged: Ink Attack a | eee 40


| Interests: Post-Fall Earth


en Kinetic Weapons





Interests: Ruined Habitats cos 55 60
Interests?Spaceship Models} @ec) | 2) | | 45
EER COG SON SN EE

Investigation FES 0





Lé (atacd Native Japanese “INT 60 | 85
Networking: Autonomists sav | 3) 30
Networking: Criminal | S\) | 40


Ree) SREF Cl 45 tti‘<é«iR

Hardware: Electronics oT iia ew 45
Hardware: Industrial oor ith 45
Infiltration coo 80 55


Networking: Ecologists| SV J 2 | | 40
Networking: Firewall Sle el a 30
Networking: Hypercorps cn le a a 30
Zed coo)|6040t—i tO

Perception ae aay | 90
Gloeoeia REF 35  (|RBRR

Pilot: Spacecraft REF | 4 | @ 45
Profession: Appraisal ‘coc | o 59 45
Profession: Salvage Ops coe 60 5 65
Sel cel ateriate INT | 60 | 5 @ 65

SII SOM SO EL

Unarmed Combat “som | so | 50


You may be an “uplift,” but you find
it hard not to feel sorry for these
modified monkeys around you who
have to get by with half as many
limbs, gaping sensory blind spots,
and brittle bones that are con-
stantly breaking. Any favors they
did by uplifting octopus-kind were
rendered moot when they suc-
ceeded in despoiling and abandon-
ing the home planet you all shared.
Nevertheless, you find all the ruins


and derelict habitats left behind by
transhumanity to be fascinating to
explore, SO you spend much of your
time combing through spacecraft
hulls and shattered stations, look-
ing for curiosities and lost trea-
sures. Such activities tend to take
you close to Earth as well, where
you support the efforts of those who
hope to take the planet back. Your
ultimate dream is to someday swim
in the oceans of your ancestors. @


“Maybe it's the kind of trap that would catch a knuckle-dragging monkey,
but my superior physiology was able to easily squeeze out of it.”


UU GIT RUE
APTTUDES








THILLY


MORPH
AP 5 Ui\








Nore (sT eee MCU Siiesm! | GUG 50
Art: Dance | IN 60

ETM elie COO 45

Blades | 70

Climbing | 50

60

is

Teckel REF 65

Tlic alicia) COG 40
Iiliteveenm COO 55

Interests: Drug Dealers | (Hale 50
MNGeSCmCruoliien COG 40
MNGISSIKANIAUIMCEIICKE! CUG 50
MGSceCCmmiiiien COG | 50
UE SAV | 60

Misi) SAV 4 40

Kinetic Weapons | &08 ( | 65
Language: Native Spanish | 7] 85
Language: Cantonese |_| elt
Networking: Autonomists 50
Networking: Criminals 50
Perception 50

Persuasion yA)

Profession: Bodyguarding 40
Profession: Protection Rackets 50
Profession: Security Ops | (&8lé 50
Scrounging | ji) | 30
TEECReeiya) SOM ri)


Those jokers in the inner
system just dont get it—the
future is about taking life by the
enhanced reproductive organs
and squeezing every juicy drop
out. You live the life you want to
live, doing whatever you like to
your bodies and mind, and you
plan to enjoy the hell out of it
until maybe you get to watch


the universe end. Right now,
you get your kicks with action,
either the violent or kinky
kind—sometimes both. You
thrive as a tough chick who will
smack the hell out of anyone
who threatens your friends or
clients during the day, but the
real fun is taking home a differ-
ent partner every night.


BERLQ ACUMEN YH UII EL
Faction: Scum
Morph: Fury






























Motivations: +Adventure +Hedonism +Morphological Freedom


TRAITS

Ego: Minor Addiction (Alcohol) m
REP

@-rep: 60

c-rep: 40

EQUIPMENT


Armor: Bioweave Armor (Light)
+ Body Armor (Heavy) with
Offensive Armor and Shock
MAOMICOMARYALE |

Primary Weapon: Kinetic Pistol
(100 rounds regular ammo) m

Starting Credit: 1,000 m


“Oi! Pretty boy! If that's the best punch you can throw,
then you're never gonna get to see the rest of my mods!”


Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic
Mesh Inserts, Bioweave
Armor (Light), Cortical Stack,
Cyberclaws, Enhanced Vision,
Medichines, Neurachem
(Level 1), Toxin Filters

Gear: Backup Insurance
(1 month), Cuffband, Kick
(2 doses), Kinetic SMG (100
rounds regular ammo),
Monofilament Sword, Muse,
INEcTave)okeyatebskerstom to} Mis) alelea.¢
Gloves, Tactical Network
Software, Wasp Knife









Background: Hyperelite
Faction: Socialite
Morph: Pleasure Pod


Motivations: +Hedonism +Hypercapitalism +Personal Career


AS
Ego: First Impression,
SITHOTOMS) Cn _|
Morph: Social Stigma (Pod) m


REP

c-rep: 30
f-rep: 40
g-rep: 20
I-rep: 10
EQUIPMENT


Armor: Second Skin [1/3] @
Primary Weapon: Claws


Starting Credit: 8,500 @

Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic
Mesh Inserts, Claws, Clean
Metabolism, Cortical Stack,
Cyberbrain, Enhanced Hearing,
Enhanced Pheromones,
Implanted Nanotoxins (Necro-
sis), Mnemonic Augmentation,
Sex Switch, Skinflex

Gear: Backup Insurance
(1 month), Hither (1 dose),
Muse, Orbital Hash (2 doses),
Servitor Bot, Smart Clothing,
Smart Rats (2), XP Clips (5) m


AF 5 A o10)\
Academics: Anthropology lO. Tmt 59





THILLY


Animal Handling) SA | S50

Art: Dancing NO ira rs. a 65

Art: Erotic Entertainment Tk. 15
Maes INT 86600

Beam Weapons econ ee 40
mo «SAV 650i

tie iNT | 645 0C

iy REF 40

Impersonation SA Ea ia 45
ieee coo 40 (&

[ie coo 3h

Interests: Art History coc 60
ene ceniactesa ay COGN) 55
Interests: Social Cliques COG «65 65
Te SAV. Ccotéi‘<é‘“; #SCdWRSE

Language: Native French iT aa 85
Language: Mandarin iT ss aii 90
Language: Japanese hi 00
Networking: Autonomists tA st aa 90
Networking: Firewall 2 we: 30
Networking: Hypercorps SAV 500i 00
Networking: Media Sav | 60 | 5 65
Ze coo )|6830830— sss

Perception int |= a 40

MORENO SAV 60 65

Profession: Escorting ie hl Saas aa)
Tr sav 6oté‘<i&étCSté*#«diRdGS

Unarmed Combat ror Sirs F 60


You are immersed in the social
cliques and glitterati lifestyle of
the inner system elites. You spe-
cialize in being the ideal com-
panion, offering witty banter and
entertainment and providing for all
your client's wishes and desires.
You are more than just a pretty
face and good time, however,
and are capable of offering your


“Tm just here to make sure you have the night of your life!"


client discreet protection from
plotting rivals thanks to some
judicious bodyguard training and
non-standard modifications. Given
the constantly shifting allegiances
and manipulations of the bored
and undying rich, you have even
on occasion used your skills to get
close to a client in order to elimi-
nate them for a rival.


TATA EPR
___ ABTITUDES













Academics: Astrosociology 0
Academics: Astrozoology cos 55
Academics: Botany a

Academics: Xenolinguistics COG 60 =
Wn SOM 45 10

Fray (ag

REF 0
mes SOM = 8=6600—S—té«COD:

Hardware: Groundcraft cic a.

Infiltration cacy wa


Interests: Gatecrashing i i 60
Interests: Sci-FiAliens| Wc Pe] 45
Investigation LASS 35

Mises SAV 30 =

Kinetic Weapons Loo aay 90
Language: Native Swedish nee reo 85
Language: English i ca a a 40
Medicine: Paramedic Ltt my | 40
Navigation SINT | 60 | 7 60

Networking: Autonomists Sav os i 55
Networking: Firewall “SV | 46 J 45
Networking: Scientists Wil Ss a
Perception Tt yr 60

Pilot: Groundcraft REF «945 55 90

Pilot: Spacecraft REF 3385 40
Profession: First Contact Soe ir ae 60
Profession: Surveying COG 45 45
Profession: Smuggling Tricks Rcoes en aaa 60
Te sav 50ti‘<i‘i‘érdzS

Sel cel iterate INT | oo] i 60


The gates have opened a new
frontier to transhumanity and you
are ready to step through and
face the challenges such oppor-
tunities bring. You are a profes-
sional gatecrasher, eager to expe-
rience new worlds first-hand,
despite the dangers—or even
because of them. Unlike those
who feel that new planets should


be protected and preserved, you
TU o} ole} ammexe)(olalyalarem-Varemey.der-vaneliare|
transhumanity’s presence while
maintaining a minimal impact on
alien ecosystems. You are also
trained in First Contact scenarios
and are hopeful of finding new
intelligent life—hopefully with-
out sparking some kind of deadly
interstellar incident.


Background: Drifter
Faction: Titanian
Morph: Olympian








Motivations: +Alien Contact +Exploration +Nano-Ecology


TRAITS
None #

REP

OE (:) |
I-rep: 20
r-rep: 30
EQUIPMENT


Armor: Vacsuit (Standard Smart-
fabric with Immunogenic
System) [7/7] &

Primary Weapon: Kinetic Assault
Rifle (100 rounds regular ammo)

Starting Credit: 4,150 m


Implants: Adrenal Boost, Basic
Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
Cortical Stack, Direction
Sense, Enhanced Vision,
Medichines, Oxygen Reserve,
Temperature Tolerance

Gear: Backup Insurance (1 month),
Breadcrumb Positioning
System, Diamond Ax, Electrogra-
vitics Net, Electronic Rope, Knife,
Portable Lidar/Radar Sensor
System, Radio Booster, Saucer
Bot, Shelter Dome, Specimen
(OXoyareclialeyemsy ediarel(eMUNiea mes) eliarel (=
Climber, Tactical Network Soft-
ware, Traction Pads, Utilitool mm


“| just finished my analysis of the xenolife amino acids and it's nothing close
to what the Boyle-Cross hypothesis suggested it should be.”








¢ , : ‘
iis Se) | : .
ty » \ | \ j | x, "hy \
q | : ; | %
N 2] ' x
y 7 | .


P —— —_——
i |
a po
= sh,
=


Background: Lunar Colonist

Faction: Ultimate

Morph: Remade

Motivations: +Immortality +Individualism +Personal Development


TRAITS
Ego: Brave @
Morph: Uncanny Valley m


Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic
Mesh Inserts, Circadian
Regulation, Clean Metabolism,
Cortical Stack, Eidetic


REP Memory, Enhanced Respiration,


eo :) | a) Enhanced Vision, Hand Laser,


Medichines, Neurachem (Level 1),


EQUIPMENT

Armor: Body Armor (Heavy) with
RCHAScLUNEMCIEPAINGM MOM RE |

Primary Weapon: Railgun SMG
(100 rounds regular ammo, 100
rounds AP ammo)

Starting Credit: 4,450 @


Temperature Tolerance, Toxin
Filters, T-Ray Emitter

Gear: Backup Insurance
(1 month), HE Grenades (10),
Muse, Particle Beam Bolter,
Tactical Network Software,
Vibroblade


UCT TILA


APTITUDE





THILLS


Bante


Academics: Military Science ” COG ea 70
Academics: Philosophy er | Nu | 70
Beam Weapons uti rt.a 65

Wii som 35 10 (ERE

Ura som so 8610

iy REF 5 lt

Free Fall REF 50 £5 50

Freerunning | ee 00

SE iNT 450s

Hardware: Armorer coc Bi ia 60
Infiltration coo | 00

Interests: Literature (coe | i hoa 60
Interests: Military History coc | Sa ia 65
Durhe SAV 35 5 ([RRRn

Kinetic Weapons ito So ia 65
Language: Native Turkish aes 80
Language: English hi a 60
Language: German Tits ii 45
Medicine: Paramedic ‘coc | vo | U7 00
Networking: Hypercorps sav | 50 | 00
Perception INT 50 | Vi 50

Pilot: Groundcraft REF 30 = 5 39
Profession: Military Ops| (ec) Ga) |) 65
Profession: SecurityOps} Wc) a0) i | 60
Profession: Squad Logistics coc | Ss 0g 65
seeker Weapons eGO0.Ony peeGOeey eos 65
Sauce coO 35 5 (it

Sel celtateliate Ce as 30

Throwing Weapons CoO 40 #5 45
Thaitktaner SOM 60 10 (iM


You are a warrior-philosopher,
embracing an ascetic lifestyle for
your own personal growth. You
decry the hedonism and greed of
the inner system and the collec-
tivism and anarchy of the autono-
mists, but you're more than will-
ing to take their pay so that they
may kill each other. You follow
your own path, however, and
when you cease to learn from an
experience or increase your own
personal capabilities you will


“Your beliefs blind you to your true potential.”


move on to the next. You mostly
find employment in the inner
system, where various social
cliques and hypercorps favor
ultimates like yourself, knowing
they are less likely to be tempted
or subverted by rivals. In the
end it doesnt matter who pays
the credit; you ll take from them,
learn from them, and be here long
after they ve destroyed them-
selves with their petty intrigues
and flawed ideologies.















A DB


Academics: Memetics EU
Academics: Psychology cos bo
Academics: Sociology =


60

Art: Rhetoric hea eb)

Mace INT 60 60

ram SAV 60 #10 70

Fray =o 25

Interests: Cultural Memes nod | 60
Interests: Hypercorps Tea. 00
Interests: Inner System Politics Cie aon I 60


Intimidation 60
Investigation rn a 00

NTRS Si wii 80

Language: Native Arabic INT) 85 85
Networking: Firewall an eo how 60
Networking: Hypercorps 60
Networking: Media SAV | 60 | io 70
Perception Lae iy | 45

MORENO sav a0 aa 60
Mloeesnoea «REF 20 (<q

Pilot: Groundcraft) ae | 20) | 20
Profession: Culture Jamming ol nn 50
Profession: Media Ops} Wc) |} iN f=) 9] 60
Profession: Spin Control crs 59
mace) celere) SAV | 60 [ii it

Psychosurgery coc 4 |] 45
Research COC i a 45


You are known as a communica- a frenzy. Your social manipulation


VERUSTA EGU TL On
—___APTTTUDES


10 20


tor and deal-maker, but you are
perhaps best described as a social
engineer. In an age of mimetic
skirmishes, you excel in shaping
oe) KeavarcLace mm OLU}o)iceme)e)ialcelamwe Walle] ait
mare combination of marketing
agent and political officer, you are
adept at media relations, spin con-
trol, suppressing dangerous ideas,
psychological warfare, ideological
purity, and whipping a crowd into


skills work even better face-to-
face, where you can run rhetori-
(of-] eal mealchsmr-) ele yareme) *)elelalc)anecmeslalel
scan body language and microex-
pressions to spot the slightest hint
OVMUIALNAULUAVAUL ancestsme) mel Xeas] 0) t(¢)amm (00)
excel at fostering dissension and
fragmenting loyalties, ultimately
getting others to do exactly what
you want while convincing them
it's in their own best interests. Hl






j
| :
a
if Zl
jj


Background: Re-instantiated

Faction: Venusian

Morph: Sylph

Motivations: +Fame +Personal Career +Venusian Sovereignty


ARS
Ego: Common Sense
Morph: Striking Looks (Level 1) m


Implants: Basic Biomods,
Basic Mesh Inserts, Clean
Metabolism, Cortical Stack,

REP maleloleratalsm@relaiege) pm alalarcarensye|

 :) | Pheromones, Medichines,

f-rep: 60 Mnemonic Augmentation,

I-rep: 60 INETale}elarcletetsm |

Gear: Backup Insurance
(1 month), Facial/Image
Recognition Software, 4 Gnat
Bots, Muse, Servitor Bot,
Specs, Tracking Software m


EQUIPMENT

Armor: Armor Clothing [3/4] @
Primary Weapon: None @
Starting Credit: 5,700 m


“It's time we discussed these rumors of Planetary Consortium interference in Morningstar's affairs.”












APTITUDES


These are ingrained abilities that every
character has, to varying degrees. Ml p. 172


LEARNED SKILLS


The most important part of a character,
these represent acquired knowledge that
is carried with them, even if they switch
morphs. Ml p. 172


Knowledge Skills: Things that you know. M@ p. 172





" Active Skills: Things that you know how to do. Mp. 172





Combat Mental Physical Social Technical Vehicle


Psi (You'll need the Psi Trait to use Psi skills!)





SKILL LIST AND NECESSARY SKILLS


Every character will want a few key skills, and there's






a list of every skill to reference, as well. Ml p. 176









APTITUDE-ONLY TESTS


In rare cases, a test may be called for in which no
particular skill applies. In this case, one or more
aptitudes are used instead. M@ p. 174





LANGUAGES


Many languages are spoken throughout the solar system. The
mesh makes instant translations easy, but despite this, many
people are still versed in two or more languages. @ p. 181





TNL













, ©.0.0_(


In a setting where physical looks and capabilities are
easily changed at the push of a button, who you are
and what you know is more important than any inborn
ability. Skills represent the knowledge your character
has, the accumulated set of experience, education, and
inherent know-how possessed by each and every sapient
transhuman in Eclipse Phase. They are what allow you
to sneak into a hypercorp station, disable the security
systems, hack the mesh hub, and then impersonate secu-
rity personnel to make your escape. Your skills represent
the one thing you have no matter what you look like or
where you find yourself. When your characters explore
what they can do, their skills or lack thereof often deter-
mine the margin between success and failure.

Having a well-rounded set of skills is vital to survival
and success in Eclipse Phase. The skills below encom-
pass a wide selection of talents, enough so that each
character can be unique in their abilities and knowledge.


OHILLS OVERVIEW


Skills are divided into aptitudes and learned skills
(see Character Skills, p. 122). Learned skills are built
on and linked to an aptitude. If a character lacks the
specific skill needed in a situation, they may usually
(but not always) default to the linked aptitude. You
may also choose to specialize in certain skills (see
Specializations, p. 123), reflecting an enhanced knowl-
edge of a particular aspect of a certain skill.


CORE SILLS: APTITUDES


Aptitudes represent inherent skills and abilities acquired
at birth or during the course of growing up. Aptitudes
are sometimes used for tests, but their primary use is
determining the starting point at which learned skills
are developed. Aptitudes determine the starting value
of their linked skills. For example, a character with
Somatics aptitude 10 who wishes to purchase points
in the Freerunning skill (which is linked to Somatics)
would start with a Freerunning rank of 10 and then buy
additionally points in that skill.

Aptitudes are also used when a character doesn’t
posses knowledge of a needed skill (see Defaulting:
Untrained Skill Use, p. 116). Aptitudes represent the
basic knowledge that a character has acquired regarding
rudimentary use of that skill. They may not have ever
received any formal training with the skill, but they can
still attempt to use it.

Aptitudes range in value from 1 to 30, with 10
being the unaugmented human average and 15 rep-
resenting the average of most genetically modified
transhumans. Since aptitudes represent untrained
ability, they are capped at a maximum rating of 30.

There are seven different aptitudes that all players
possess. These aptitudes are purchased during








character creation (p. 128), but depending on the
quality of the morph the character is currently inhab-
iting, they may find their aptitudes capped (p. 123) or
modified (p. 123).


LEARNED ShiLLs


A character’s learned skills represent the acquired
knowledge they carry with them from morph to
morph, knowledge that plays a fundamental role in
helping define the person’s ego. Learned skills encom-
pass nearly any skill that you might need to use in
Eclipse Phase. They range in value from 0 to 99.

All learned skills have a linked aptitude that is
used to calculate their initial value and which is
also defaulted to if the player does not have that
particular skill.


SKILL CATEGORIES


Each learned skill is classified as either an Active skill
or a Knowledge skill. Active skills typically require
physical actions and are used in action scenes within
game play. Knowledge skills are more knowledge-
based and intellectual, representing ideas and facts.
Knowledge skills may play a less dramatic role in
certain action-oriented game play moments, but they
flesh out the character’s background and interests and
are integral to roleplaying interactions. Active and
Knowledge skills are purchased separately during
character creation.

Active skills are further divided into Combat,
Mental, Physical, Psi, Social, Technical, and Vehicle
skills. Certain traits and abilities may apply to specific
categories.


FIELD ShILLS


Some learned skills are field skills, meaning that when
this skill is chosen a particular field of emphasis must
also be selected. For example, the skill of Academics
requires the character to specify an academic disci-
pline in which they are knowledgeable such as Biology,
Chemistry, or Xenosociology. Field skills are written
as “[skill]: [field];” for example: “Art: Painting.” Field
skills can be taken multiple times, choosing a different
area of emphasis each time, reflecting skills in differ-
ent fields; that is to say, each field is a separate skill.
Several suggested fields are listed for each field skill,
but gamemasters and players may also cooperate to
create others that fit their games.

Field skills may also have specializations; for example,
Professional: Accounting (Money Laundering).


Dol SRILLS


Psi refers to the ability to perceive and manipulate
biological minds via psi waves and/or other inex-
plicable phenomena. Due to the uniqueness of this





ability, characters that wish to wield psi must acquire
the Psi trait, (p. 147). Psi use also requires a number
of specialized skills (Control, Psi Assault, and Sense)
that reflect special training characters acquire to tap
into their psi powers. Psi skills may not be defaulted
on; the only way to use a psi skill is to possess the trait
along with training in that skill. For more details, see
desta 2 0)


SPECIALIZATIONS


Any character may opt to specialize in a given skill
(see Specializations, p. 123). This specialization
reflects increased knowledge in one particular aspect
of the skill. Many of the skills offered below include
sample specializations. Gamemasters and players
are encouraged to develop other specialization ideas
together for their campaigns.

Specialization provides a +10 modifier when using
that skill in a situation appropriate to that specialization.


USING SRILLS


Whenever a character wants to do something using
a skill, they must succeed at a skill test (see Making
Tests, p. 115). The difficulty of the action is applied
as a modifier, as are any other extenuating circum-
stances that may affect the test (see Difficulty and
Modifiers, p. 115). As with other types of tests, all skill
tests are successful when the character rolls less than
or equal to the test’s target number after any modi-
fiers have been applied. In the case of skill tests, the
target number is the character’s skill rating with that
particular skill. Modifiers representing difficulty and
other factors are applied directly to the target number
(see Difficulty and Modifiers, p. 115). A roll of a 00 is
always a success, regardless of modifiers, and a result
of 99 is always a failure, again despite any modifiers
that may increase a character’s target number over 100.
Standard critical success and failure rules apply to skill
tests (see Criticals: Rolling Doubles, p. 116), so any
time a character rolls a double (i.e. 00, 11, 22, 33, etc.)
they score a critical success or failure.


DEFAULTING


Sometimes you lack the skill needed in a certain situ-
ation. In these instances, characters may default their
skill test to the linked aptitude. This reflects the fact
that most learned skills are developed from some sort
of baseline physical ability. Even though you may not
know how to do something, you’ve likely seen how


it’s done at some point, have some idea of how to do it, __


or can at least take a shot at it. Naturally, you’re not
as good as someone who has training in that skill, but
it still allows you to make an attempt.

Not all skills can be defaulted. Some skills are simply
too complex or obscure or demand special knowledge
or ability for someone to attempt untrained. For
example, brain surgery or most psi skills are simply
beyond anyone who doesn’t have that ability or the
knowledge of what they’re attempting.


DEFRULTING TO FIELD SKILLS


In some cases, a character may not possess the par-
ticular field skill that a test calls for, but they may be
skilled in another related field. For example, a test to
conduct an alien autopsy might call for an Academics:
Astrobiology roll, but a character who doesn’t have
that skill may be allowed to default to Academics:
Biology instead. The gamemaster decides if and when
to allow this, perhaps applying a modifier to the test
based on the difference between fields.


DEFRULTING TO RELATED SKILLS


If the gamemaster allows it, characters may default to
a related skill that also has some relevance to the test
at hand. For example, a character skilled in Kinetic
Weapons might not be trained in the use of a laser,
but they know enough to point at the target and pull
the trigger. Likewise, a character might not be skilled
in Investigation, but the gamemaster could still allow
them to use their Perception skill instead in order to
realize that a body had been moved from the place
where it had been shot. In situations like this, when
the gamemaster allows defaulting to a related skill, a
—30 modifier should be applied to the test.


Srit is wandering through a black market souk on
Mars, trying to find a particular piece of sensory
equipment. The gamemaster calls for a Scrounging
Test, but Srit does not have that skill. She could
default to her INT of 22, but instead she asks the
gamemaster if she can default to the related skill
of Perception, which she has at 82. The gamemas-
ter agrees, and so Srit rolls against a target number
of 52 (82 — 30).





COMPLEMENTARY ShILLS


Sometimes more than one skill may apply to a par-
ticular test or knowledge in one area can aid your skill
in another. In this case, the gamemaster may apply a
modifier to the skill test based on the strength of the
complementing skill, as noted on the Complementary
Skill Bonus table.











Dav is hoping to persuade a brinker pilot to take him
to an isolated habitat that doesn't welcome visitors.
To impress upon the pilot that he is a friend of these
fringers, he calls on his knowledge of their particular
cultural practices (Interests: Religious Cults skill at
45). The gamemaster allows this and applies a +20
modifier to Dav's Persuasion Test.


COMPLEMENTARY SKILL BONUS


SKILL RATING MODIFIER











ee a ee ne
—_____—~ it. _—$_— ee ST


11-15
16-20
21-25
20= 50





= oe “


SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE

















transhuman average fit





child average inept clumsy slow


adult average weak able paced


coordinated swift








enhanced enhanced agile fast
superhuman gifted nimble lightning
posthuman elite unerring synaptic


SKILL RANGES


What is the difference between being a clumsy neo-
phyte wobbling in zero gravity and being a veteran
gliding effortlessly through space as though you were
dancing? The answer is training and skill. The greater
your skill, the more likely you are to not only succeed
at what you want to do, but succeed well.

Aptitudes in Eclipse Phase range from 1 to 30,
while learned skills range from 0 to 99. These
numbers are an abstraction of the range of transhu-
man abilities and traits. The Aptitude Range table
provides a breakdown of different aptitude levels and
how they relate to each other. Likewise, the Learned
Skill Ranges table provides an interpretation for the
capabilities at different skill levels.


There are 7 aptitudes in Eclipse Phase, described
on p. 122) ach eharactem has these aptitudes at a
minimum rating of 1.


APTITUDE-ONLY TESTS


In rare cases, a test may call for using an aptitude
only, rather than a learned skill. This should only
occur when no learned skills are appropriate to the
test. These circumstances are usually noted in the
rules.

Aptitude-only tests must be handled carefully, as
the range of aptitude ratings (1-30) is typically much
smaller than the rating of learned skills (0-99). For
this reason, most aptitude tests should use a target
number equal to the aptitude x 3. In rare cases where





Pr) en Gar





limited aware awkward distracted


intelligent perceptive personable controlled


bright sharp charismatic focused





learned uncanny dazzling resolute
brilliant prescient mesmerizing unwavering
genius near omniscient hypnotic unshakable

| Lee ~


00 No exposure or familiarity, completely unskilled
10 Very rudimentary knowledge


20 Basic operator's proficiency (driver's license, gun permit,
high school diploma)


30 Hands-on experience, some professional training


40 Basic professional certification (police driving, army rifle
certified, college diploma)


50 Experience from professional-level work, some
advanced training


60 Expert competence (competitive driver, marksman, PhD)


70 __ Experience from expert-level work, has had unique in-
novations or insights


80 Worthy of being a system-renowned authority on
the subject


nen neve eee ee EE ETSPGE SEE EESGFERESEPEEEPESOEESEIOEEEEISED


90 —Nobel/Olympic/grandmaster


99 Pinnacle of current understanding and innovation


ae A


the test is more difficult, the gamemaster may simply
use an aptitude x 2, or just the straight aptitude rating.
In some cases, more than one aptitude may be rel-
evant to the test and so they may be added together to
derive the target number.

What follows are a few examples where an apti-
tude-only test might be appropriate. Gamemasters
may call for similar tests in other situations, but
learned skills should be used whenever possible.




















BRUTE STRENGTH


Any test that involves simple brute strength can be
handled as an SOM x 3 Test. Use this when smashing
down a door, breaking an item in half, engaging in a


J} tug-of-war, or lifting and carrying a heavy item.


CATCHING THROWN OBJECTS

Use REF + (COO x 2) any time you need to catch a
thrown or dropped object, such as catching a baseball,
saving a priceless vase from shattering, or throwing


back a grenade (p. 200).


COMPOSURE AND RESOLVE


_ Various game situations may frighten your character,


turn their stomach, horrify them, or rattle them to the
core of their being. Use WIL x 3 to determine if your
character can hold their ground, keep it down, and
pull themselves together.


EOCAPE ARTIST


If a character wants to slip free of physical bonds
(such as ropes or handcuffs) or otherwise contort
themselves (such as wriggling out from under a col-
lapsed wall or an overturned vehicle), an Escape Artist
Test may be called for using the character’s COO +
SOM. Apply modifiers appropriate to the difficulty of
the situation. At the gamemaster’s discretion, escaping
from some restraining situations may be considered a
Task Action with an appropriate timeframe.


HAVING AN (DER


Sometimes the players miss the obvious or their per-
sonal mindset or biases cause them to misinterpret a
situation or understand events in a way different from
how the actual character would. In cases like this, the
gamemaster can call for an INT x 3 or COG x 3 roll
(whichever is more appropriate) to determine if the
character gets an idea that will help them along. This
test should be used sparingly and only for assessing
the character’s interpretation of obvious and known
facts and details.


MEMORIZING AND REMEMBERING


Memories are what egos use to maintain continuity
of self from morph to morph, but humans are notori-
ous for remembering things incorrectly. Whenever
characters attempt to recall a memory or memorize
some piece of information, use COG x 3 to determine
how well they succeed. Note that characters with
eidetic memory (Eidetic Memory trait, p. 146 or
Eidetic Memory augmentation, p. 301) or Mnemonic
Augmentation, p. 307 have perfect memory, so no test
is required.












SYNOPSIS





WELCOME T0 FIREWALL




















JY |! LJ by i | ) | LJ i & I

This section details all of the learned skills avail-
able in Eclipse Phase. Gamemasters and players
may, of course, agree to add additional skills to
this list as appropriate to their campaign.


ACADEMICS: [FIELD|


Type: Field, Knowledge
Linked Aptitude: COG
What it is: Academics covers any sort of spe-
cialized non-applied knowledge you can only get
through intensive education. Most theoretical
and applied sciences, social sciences, transhu-
manities, etc. are covered by this skill. Most of
the other skills listed in this chapter could also be
taken as an Academics field, reflecting a working
theoretical knowledge of the skill—for example,
Academics: Armorer or Academics: Interrogation.
When you use it: Academics is used when a
character wishes to call upon a specific body of
knowledge. For example, Academics: Chemistry
could be used to identify a particular substance,
understand an unusual chemical reaction, or deter-
mine what elements are needed to nanofabricate
something that requires exotic materials. At the
gamemaster’s discretion, some Academics-related
tests might not be defaultable, given that only
someone who has been educated in that subject is
likely to be able to tackle it.
Sample Fields: Archeology, Astrobiology,
Astronomy, Astrophysics, Astrosociology,
Biochemistry, Biology, Botany, Computer Science,


’ ‘ : rt q : —— im | )
Ante arssien


A MmMiyn
PIeeu GQ TTA YY























Academics: [Field]
Animal Handling
Art: [Field
Beam Weapons
| Blades

| Climbing

| Clubs

Control
Deception
Demolitions
Disguise

Exotic Melee Weapon: [Field]
| Exotic Ranged Weapon: [Field]
| Flight

Fray

Free Fall

Freerunning

Gunnery

| Hardware: [Field]

| Impersonation

Infiltration

Infosec

Interest: [Field]

Interfacing

| Intimidation

| Investigation

| Kinesics

| Kinetic Weapons
Language: [Field]
Medicine: [Field]
Navigation

| Networking: [Field]

| Palming

| Perception

Persuasion

Pilot: [Field]

Profession: [Field]
Programming

| Protocol

| Psi Assault

| Psychosurgery

Research

Scrounging

Seeker Weapons

Sense

| Spray Weapons

Swimming

| Throwing Weapons
Unarmed Combat





SOM
WIL (no defaulting)
SAV
COG (no defaulting)
INT
SOM
COO
SOM
REF
REF
SOM
INT
COG
SAV
COO
COG (no defaulting)
COG
COG
SAV
INT
SAV
COO
INT
COG
INT
SAV
COO
INT
SAV
REF
COG
COG (no defaulting)
SAV
WIL (no defaulting)
INT
COG
INT
COO
INT (no defaulting)
COO
SOM
COO
SOM


Knowledge
Active, Social
Knowledge
Active, Combat
Active, Combat
Active, Physical
Active, Combat


Active, Mental, Psi


Active, Social
Active, Technical
Active, Physical
Active, Combat
Active, Combat
Active, Physical
Active, Combat
Active, Physical
Active, Physical
Active, Combat
Active, Technical
Active, Social
Active, Physical
Active, Technical
Knowledge
Active, Technical
Active, Social
Active, Mental
Active, Social
Active, Combat
Knowledge
Active, Technical
Active, Mental
Active, Social
Active, Physical
Active, Mental
Active, Social
Active, Vehicle
Knowledge
Active, Technical
Active, Social


Active, Mental, Psi


Active, Technical
Active, Technical
Active, Mental
Active, Combat


Active, Mental, Psi


Active, Combat
Active, Physical
Active, Combat
Active, Combat











ae








Cryptography, Economics, Engineering, Genetics,
Geology, Linguistics, Mathematics, Memetics,
Nanotechnology, Old Earth History, Physics, Polit-
ical Science, Psychology, Sociology, Xeno-archeology,
Xenolinguistics, Zoology

Specializations: As appropriate to the field


ANIMAL HANDLING


Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV

What it is: Skilled animal handlers are able to train
and control a wide variety of natural and transgenic
animals, including partial uplifts. Though many
animal species went extinct during the Fall, a few ark
and zoo habitats keep some species alive, and many
others can be resurrected from genetic samples. Exotic
animals are considered a sign of prestige among the
hypercorp elites, and guard animals are occasionally
used to protect high-security installations. Likewise,
many habitats and settlements employ small armies of
partially uplifted, genetically modified, and behavior-
controlled creatures for sanitation or other purposes.
Many new and strange breeds of animal are created
daily to serve a variety of roles.

When you use it: Animal Handling is used when-
ever you are trying to manipulate an animal, whether
your intent is to calm it down, keep it from attacking,
intimidate it, acquire its trust, or goad it into attack-
ing. Your Margin of Success determines how effective
you are at convincing the creature. At the gamemas-
ter’s discretion, modifiers may be applied to the test.
Likewise, winning an animal over may sometimes
take time and so could be handled as a Task Action
with a timeframe of five minutes or more.
Specializations: Per animal species (dogs, horses,

smart rats, etc.)


TRAINING ANIMALS


Training animals is a time-consuming task requiring
repeated efforts and rewards to reinforce the trained
behavior. Treat this as a Task Action with a timeframe
of one day to one month, depending on the complex-
ity of the action. Apply modifiers to this test based on
the relative intelligence of the animal being trained,
how domestic it is, and the complexity of the task.

Once an animal has been trained, commanding it
is treated as a Simple Success Test (see p. 118) except
for unusual or stressful situations, in which case
the trainer receives a +30 modifier on their Animal
Handling Tests when convincing the animal to com-
plete the trained action.


ART: [FIELD]


Type: Field, Knowledge
Linked Aptitude: INT

What it is: Art confers the ability to create and eval-
uate artistic endeavors. This is a particularly useful
skill in Eclipse Phase, especially in the post-scarcity
economies where creativity and vision can be a key
component to a character’s reputation.


ret 5


When you use it: The Art skill can be used to either
create a new work of art or to duplicate an existing
piece of art in the hopes of passing it off as your
own. The skill can also determine the approximate
value of a piece of art either on the open market, for
monetary exchange systems, or in terms of reputa-
tion for the artist.

Sample Fields: Architecture, Criticism, Dance, Drama,
Drawing, Painting, Performance, Sculpture, Simul-
space Design, Singing, Speech, Writing

Specializations: As appropriate to the field


BEAM WEAPONS


Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: COO
What it is: The Beam Weapons skill covers the
usage and maintenance of standard coherent beam
energy weapons such as lasers, particle beam weapons,
plasma rifles, and microwave weapons (p. 338).
When you use it: A player uses their Beam Weapons
skill whenever attacking with a beam weapon in
combat (p. 191). Beam Weapons may also be used for
tests involving maintenance of the weapon, but not
for repairing or modifying the weapon (that would be
Hardware: Armorer skill).
Specializations: Lasers, Microwave Weapons, Particle
Beam Weapons, Plasma Rifles


BLADES


Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: SOM

What it is: The Blades skill covers the usage and
maintenance of standard bladed weapons (p. 334).

When you use it: A player uses their Blades skill
whenever attacking with a blade weapon in melee
combat (p. 191). Blades may also be used for tests
involving maintenance of the weapon, but not for
repairing or modifying the weapon (that would be
Hardware: Armorer skill). This skill is used for blade
weapons implanted in the body at the end of an
appendage (hands, forearms, feet, octomorph arms,
etc.), but the Exotic Melee Weapon skill is used for
blades implanted in other parts of the body.
Specializations: Axes, Implant Blades, Knives, Swords


CLIMBING


Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: SOM

What it is: Climbing is the skill of ascending and
descending sheer surfaces with or without the aid of
specialized equipment.

When you use it: This skill is used whenever a char-
acter wishes to scale a climbable surface. For heights
greater than one story, climbing is handled as a Task
Action with a timeframe equivalent to one meter
per Combat Turn. For rappelling, the timeframe for
descent is 50 meters per Action Turn. Climbing gear
(Grip Pads, p. 305; Traction Pads, p. 317; Spindle
Climber, p. 333) provides appropriate modifiers.
Specializations: Assisted, Freehand, Rappelling























SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE


—=














GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


vm





CLUBS


Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: SOM

What it is: The Clubs skill covers the usage and
maintenance of standard blunt melee weapons such
as batons or sticks (see Clubs, p. 334).

When you use it: Players use their Clubs skill
whenever they want to attack with a blunt weapon
in melee combat (p. 191). The Clubs skill may also be
used for tests involving maintenance of the weapon,
but not for repairing or modifying the weapon (that
would be Hardware: Armorer skill).

Specializations: Batons, Hammers, Staffs


CONTROL


Type: Active, Mental, Psi
Linked Aptitude: WIL (no defaulting)

What it is: Control is the use of psi to manipulate
individuals or actively penetrate their mental pro-
cesses. This skill is only available to characters with
the Psi trait, (p. 147).

When you use it: Use Control when taking a psionic
tour through a foreign ego—messing around included.
See fst, pa 220)

Specializations: By sleight


DECEPTION


Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV

What it is: Deception is your ability to act, bluff, con,
fast talk, lie, misrepresent, and pretend. Accomplished
users of deception are able to convince anyone of nearly
anything. This skill does not include using a physical
disguise or passing yourself off as another person (the
Disguise and Impersonate skills cover those areas).

When you use it: Use this skill whenever you want
to deceive someone with words or gestures. A suc-
cessful skill test means that you have passed off your
deception convincingly. At the gamemaster’s discretion,
someone who is actively alert for signs of deception
may make an Opposed Test using the Kinesics skill.
Specializations: Acting, Bluffing, Fast Talk


DEMOLITIONS


Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG (no defaulting)

What it is: Demolitions covers the use of controlled
explosives.

When you use it: Use it when making, placing,
and disarming explosives and explosive devices. see
Demolitions, p. 197
Specializations: Commercial Explosives, Disarming,

Improvised Explosives


DISGUISE


Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: INT

What it is: Disguise is the art of physically altering
your appearance so that you look like someone else.
This includes both the use of props (wigs, contacts,


skin pigments) and the altering of subtle physical
characteristics (gait, posture, poise).

When you use it: Use Disguise to fool someone into
thinking you’re someone you’re not. This can be used
to hide your identity or to make yourself look like
someone in particular. When used against someone
who knows your true look or the appearance of
the person you are imitating, this is handled as an
Opposed Test against Perception or Investigation.
Specializations: Cosmetic, Theatrical


EROTIC MELEE WEAPON: [FIELD]


Type: Field, Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: SOM
What it is: The Exotic Melee Weapon skill covers
the use and maintenance of all melee weapons not
covered by the Clubs or Blades skills (see p. 334).
When you use it: Use the Exotic Melee Weapon
skill when attacking someone with an exotic melee
weapon in melee combat (see p. 191).
Sample Fields: Morning Star, Spear, Whip
Specializations: N/A


EROTIC RANGED WEAPON: (FIELD


Type: Field, Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: COO

What it is: Exotic Ranged Weapon skill includes
the use and maintenance of all ranged weapons
not covered by the Beam, Kinetic, Seeker, Spray, or
Throwing Weapons skills.

When you use it: Use this skill whenever attacking with
an exotic ranged weapon in ranged combat (see p. 191)
Sample Fields: Blowgun, Crossbow, Slingshot
Specializations: N/A


FLIGHT


Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: SOM
What it is: Flight is the skill of using your body to
fly. This skill is used when sleeved in or jamming a
winged or otherwise flight-capable morph (manual
and remote-control flight are handled using Pilot skill).
When you use it: Use this skill whenever you need
to make an aerial maneuver, land in difficult condi-
tions, maintain your course in steep winds, or other-
wise keep from crashing or falling.
Specializations: Diving, Landing, Takeoff, specific
maneuvers


rAAY


Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: REF
What it is: Fray is the ability to get out of the way
of incoming attacks, debris, or inconvenient passers-by.
Characters that have a high Fray score are able to react
quicker than others when dodging or maneuvering.
When you use it: Whenever a character is physically
attacked by an opponent in melee combat, roll Fray to
avoid getting hit (see Step 2: Declare Defense, p. 191).
Fray may also be used to dodge other events that may










— <<








— = se a ee ae


harm the character, such as avoiding a charging vehicle
or jumping out of the way of a collapsing stack of crates.
Specializations: Blades, Clubs, Full Defense, Unarmed


TREE FALL


Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: REF

What it is: Free Fall is about moving in free-fall and
microgravity environments.

When you use it: Use whenever you need to maneu-
ver in a zero-g situation, such as propelling yourself
across a large open space or making sure you don’t
accidentally send yourself spinning off into space.
Free Fall is also used when moving with spacesuit
maneuvering jets and when parachuting.
Specializations: Microgravity, Parachuting, Vacsuits


FREERUMMING


Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: SOM
What it is: Freerunning is part running, part gymnas-
tics. It is about moving fast, maneuvering over/under/
around/through obstacles, and placing your body
where it needs to go. Freerunning/parkour is a popular
pastime in habitats where open space is limited.
When you use it: Use Freerunning whenever you
need to overcome an obstacle via movement, such
as hurdling a railing, rolling across the hood of a
car, jumping across a pit, or swinging around a pole.
Freerunning is also used for sprinting (p. 191) and full
defense against attacks (p. 198).
Specializations: Balance, Gymnastics, Jumping, Running


GUNNERY


Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: INT

What it is: Gunnery skill covers the use and main-
tenance of large, vehicular, or non-portable weapons
systems. Firing these weapons is more like playing a
video game than firing a gun.

When you use it: Use Gunnery when attacking with
a vehicle-mounted weapon or weapon emplacement
in ranged combat (p. 191).
Specializations: Artillery, Missiles





HARDWARE: (FLELD|


Type: Field, Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG

What it is: This skill encompasses the ability to
build, repair, physically hack, and upgrade equipment
of a specific type.

When you use it: Hardware is primarily used to
repair devices, vehicles, habitat systems, or synthetic
morphs. See Building, Repairing, and Modifying below.
Sample Fields: Aerospace (all air and space vehicles),

Armorer (armor and weapons), Electronics (all

computerized devices), Groundcraft, Implants,

Industrial (habitat, factory, and life support

systems), Nautical (watercraft and submarines),

Robotics (synthetic morphs)

Specializations: As appropriate to the field


BUILDING


Creating an item from scratch is handled as a Task
Action with a timeframe determined by the gamemas-
ter. The timeframe should be set according to the com-
plexity of the object and could range from an hour
(constructing a set of shelves) to days (assembling a
robot from spare parts) or even months (building a
house). Numerous factors may apply modifiers to
the test, such as the use of entoptic blueprints/help
manuals (+20) or poor working conditions (—10
to -30). Tools are also a factor, perhaps making the
job easier (superior tools +10 to +30), more difficult
(poor or inadequate tools, -10 to —30), or even impos-
sible (lack of required tools).


REPAIRING


Damaged items may be repaired in a similar manner. See


the rules for Synthmorph and Object Repair, p. 208.


MODIFYING


Altering an object’s design and function follows the
same basic rules as build and repair, above. The time-
frame is determined by the gamemaster as appropriate
to the modification.




















SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE


—=

















GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


i





IMPERSONATION


Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV

What it is: Impersonation is the skill of trying to
pass yourself off as someone else in social situations,
including virtual ones. This includes copying man-
nerisms and speech patterns and using accumulated
information to convince others that you are that
person. In a universe where appearance is highly vari-
able, the question of identity is largely one of both
trust and picking up on behavioral quirks and verbal
cues to recognize a given individual.

When you use it: Sometimes it’s fun to pretend
you’re someone else, and sometimes it’s profitable
or lifesaving. Use this skill whenever you attempt
to convince someone that you are actually someone
else through some sort of social or online interac-
tion. Forks use this skill when passing themselves
off as their alpha ego. Impersonate is handled as an
Opposed Test against the Kinesics skill.
Specializations: Avatar, Face-to-Face, Verbal


INFILTRATION


Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: COO

What it is: The art of escaping detection.

When you use it: Use Infiltration whenever you
need to physically hide or move with stealth to avoid
someone sensing you, whether you are hiding behind
a tree, sneaking past a guard, or blending into a
crowd. Infiltration can also be used to follow people
(shadowing) without them detecting you. Infiltration
is an Opposed Test against the Perception of whom-
ever you are hiding from. The gamemaster may wish
to roll such tests in secret so the player does not know
whether they have succeeded or failed.
Specializations: Blending In, Hiding, Shadowing,

Sneaking


INMFOSEC


Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG (no defaulting)

What it is: Infosec is short for “information secu-
rity.” It encompasses training in electronic intrusion
and counterintrusion techniques as well as encryption
and decryption.

When you use it: Infosec is used both for hacking
into electronic devices and mesh networks and for
protecting them. See The Mesh chapter, p. 234, for
more details.

Specializations: Brute-Force Hacking, Decryption,

Probing, Security, Sniffing, Spoofing


INTEREST: (FIELD


Type: Field, Knowledge
Linked Aptitude: COG

What it is: Interest includes just about any topic
that captures your attention that isn’t covered by
another skill. This includes hobbies, obsessions,


causes, pastimes, and other recreational pursuits.

When you use it: Use the Interest skill whenever
you need to recall or use knowledge related to the
particular interest in question.

Field Examples: Ancient Sports, Celebrity Gossip,
Conspiracies, Factor Trivia, Gambling, Hypercorp
Politics, Lunar Habitats, Martian Beers, Old Earth
Nation-States, Reclaimer Blogs, Science Fiction, Scum
Drug Dealers, Spaceship Models, Triad Economics,
Underground XP
Specializations: As appropriate to the field


INTERFACING


Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG

What it is: Interfacing is about using computerized
electronic devices and software.

When you use it: Use Interfacing to understand
an electronic device you are not familiar with, use a
program according to its normal operating param-
eters, manipulate electronic files of various types
(including images, video, XP, and audio files), scan
for wireless devices, and otherwise interact with and
command your ecto, muse, and other computerized
devices. Some Interfacing actions may be Task Actions
with a timeframe determined by the gamemaster. For
more detail, see The Mesh chapter, p. 234.
Specializations: Forgery, Scanning, Stealthing, by

program


INTIMIDATION


Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV

What it is: Intimidation is convincing someone to
do what you want based on direct threats (implied or
actual) or sheer force of personality.

When you use it: Use Intimidation to scare someone
into submission, browbeat them into getting your
way, command them to follow your orders, or berate
them into giving up information. Influence is handled
as an Opposed Test, pitted against the target’s
WIL + WIL + SAV.

Specializations: Interrogation, Physical, Verbal


INVESTIGATION


Type: Active, Mental
Linked Aptitude: INT

What it is: Investigation is the art of analyzing
evidence, piecing together clues, solving mysteries,
and making logical deductions from groups of facts.
Investigation differs from Perception in that it is the
conscious search for clues or pieces of a puzzle.

When you use it: Use Investigation to draw conclu-
sions from assorted details. For example, Investigation
could be used to determine the likely sequence of
events at a crime scene, determine a possible social
connection between two people, or deduce how an
enemy made their escape. Investigation is a great way
to provide clues to players, especially when the subject

















matter is something their character might know well

but the player does not.

Specializations: Evidence Analysis, Logical Deduc-
tions, Physical Investigation, Physical Tracking


HUNESICS


Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV

What it is: Kinesics is the art of empathy and non-
vocal communication.

When you use it: Use Kinesics to read body lan-
guage, tells, social cues, and other subconscious indi-
cators. It can also be used to emote more effectively.
Kinesics is used defensively whenever someone is
trying to deceive you; make an Opposed Test against
that person’s Deception or Impersonation skill.

Though synthetic morphs are also designed to
emote, reading them is not as easy. Apply a -30 modi-
fier when judging a synthetic morph inhabited by a
character or AGI. Likewise, standard Als are also dif-
ficult to read; apply a -60 modifier when judging a
synthetic morph or pod operated by an AI.
Specializations: Judge Intent, Nonvocal Communication


JUDGING EMOTIONS AND INTENTIONS


Transhumans are empathic beings and so you can
attempt to gauge the demeanor and/or intent of
someone you are dealing with by rolling a Kinesics
Test. This attempt to read someone is far from exact,
however, and it is easy to misjudge. The gamemaster
should make this test in secret and only allow a hint
if successful—it is not possible to read someone with
absolute certainty. If the person being judged is inten-
tionally trying to deceive the character, this should be
an Opposed Test against their Deception skill.


MONVOCHL COMMUNICATION


Experts in Kinesics can effectively communicate
with each other simply by posture, stances, gestures,
demeanors, and looks. Such communication is nec-
essarily limited in the amount of information it can
convey, but feelings, attitudes, affirmation/negation,
and simple concepts may be passed. To effectively
communicate complex concepts, the gamemaster may
require successful Kinesics Tests from both parties,
applying modifiers as appropriate.


HIMETIC WEAPONS


Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: COO

What it is: Kinetic Weapons covers the use and
maintenance of standard kinetic projectile weapons
like firearms and railguns (p. 335).

When you use it: Use this skill whenever attacking
with a kinetic weapon in ranged combat (p. 191).
Specializations: Assault Rifles, Machine Guns, Pistols,

Sniper Rifles, Submachine Guns









LANGUAS =S IN
tf HRY ed VA)


With the Fall of Ear
remain most promi
those that were exten:
by countries and hypercor}
space programs or by
‘exete) amt -] ole) a-1a-mr-] ale
KoyViVi=xe Mm Komi ave|(=mr-lare
of space expansion.
~ common. Many habit


irae e Pa le
___ings cling to specific


faAaToaAl


ge


TT : Ulalaye|
i : JIL AUT Ti





LANGUAGE: [FIELD


Type: Field, Knowledge
Linked Aptitude: INT

What it is: Language covers the speaking and
reading of languages other than the player’s native
tongue. A speaker is considered fluent at a skill level
of 50; anything above this indicates further refine-
ment in technical vocabulary, accents, and knowl-
edge of dialects.

When you use it: Use the Language skill whenever
you want to speak, understand, or read something in
a language at which you are skilled. Most speaking
and reading comprehension tests can be considered
Simple Success Tests if your skill is over 50, unless the
gamemaster rules the subject is sufficiently complex
that a non-native speaker would have trouble under-
standing it.

Sample Fields: Arabic, Cantonese, English, French, Hindi,

Japanese, Mandarin, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish
Specializations: As appropriate to the field, representing

dialects, technical jargon, and subcultural slang














oe’


SYNOPSIS















MEDICINE: [FIELD|


Type: Field, Active, Technical

Linked Aptitude: COG
What it is: Medicine is the applied care and mainte-

nance of biological beings and life.

When you use it: Use Medicine whenever you need
to apply medical care beyond the immediate help
provided by first responders. This includes conducting
physical exams, diagnosing ailments, treating prob-
lems and illnesses, surgery, using biotech and nano-
tech medical tools, and long-term care. see Healing
and Repair, p. 208.

Sample Fields: Biosculpting, Exotic Biomorphs,
Gene Therapy, General Practice, Implant Surgery,
Nanomedicine, Paramedic, Pods, Psychiatry,
Remote Surgery, Trauma Surgery, Uplifts (by type),
Veterinary

Specializations: As appropriate to the field


NAVIGATION


Type: Active, Mental
Linked Aptitude: INT

What it is: Navigation is the art of finding your way,
whether using AR maps, a compass, the stars, or an
astrogation AI.

When you use it: Use Navigation whenever you
need to plot out a course, determine a direction, or
otherwise keep from getting lost.

Specializations: Astrogation, Map Making, Map


Reading
NETWORKING: (FIELD
Type: Active, Social


Linked Aptitude: SAV
What it is: Networking is your skill at working your
contacts, trading favors, and keeping your finger on
the pulse of a particular faction or cultural grouping.
When you use it: Use Networking to gather infor-
mation or call on services using your Reputation (see
Reputation and Social Networks, p. 285).


i.
= * 5 E> .
f) 4 f
ty © |
i |
1 ah |


p z 7 r tt i F
= ia) =. |








Sample Fields: Autonomists (@-rep), Criminals (g-rep),
Ecologists (e-rep), Firewall (i-rep), Hypercorps (c-rep),
Media (f-rep), Scientists (r-rep). At the gamemaster’s
discretion, this list can be expanded to other (sub)-
cultural groupings.

Specializations: As appropriate to each field


PHLMING


Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: COO

What it is: Palming is the skill of handling items quickly
and nimbly without others noticing. Palming is not only
about dexterous manipulation of objects but also relies
heavily on obfuscation, timing, and misdirection.

When you use it: Use Palming any time you are
trying to conceal an item on your person, shoplift,
pick a pocket, surreptitiously discard something, or
perform a magic trick. Palming is an Opposed Test
against the Perception of any onlookers. The game-
master may wish to make this roll secretly.
Specializations: Pickpocketing, Shoplifting, Tricks


PERCEPTION


Type: Active, Mental
Linked Aptitude: INT

What it is: Perception is the use of your physical
senses (including cybernetic) and awareness of the
physical world around you. Perception differs from
Investigation in that it is noticing things by chance,
rather than actively searching for something.

When you use it: Use Perception whenever you
want to take a detailed account of your surround-
ings (see Detailed Perception, p. 190). Perception
can also be considered an Automatic Action (see
Basic Perception, p. 190) and so the gamemaster may
call for a Perception Test to determine if you notice
something; it is recommended that such tests be rolled
secretly by the gamemaster. Perception is also used as
an Opposed Test whenever someone around you is
trying to be sneaky with Infiltration or Palming.
Specializations: Aural, Olfactory, Tactile, Taste, Visual








= |










PERSUASION


Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV

What it is: Persuasion is the art of convincing
someone to do what you want through the use of
words and gestures. This does not include persua-
sion through threats or force (that is covered by
Intimidation) or by lying (covered by Deception).

When you use it: Use Persuasion any time you
are trying to bargain with, convince, or manipulate
someone. This can include motivating your subordi-
nates or peers to take action, seducing a companion,
winning a political debate, or negotiating a contract,
among other things. Persuasion is handled as an
Opposed Test against the target’s WIL + WIL + SAV
when one person is simply trying to win over another.
If both parties are trying to convince each other, make
it an Opposed Test between Persuasion skills.
Specializations: Diplomacy, Morale Boosting, Negoti-

ating, Seduction


PILOT: [FIELD


Type: Field, Active, Vehicle

Linked Aptitude: REF
What it is: Pilot is your skill at driving/flying a

vehicle of a particular type.

When you use it: You use Pilot skill whenever you
need to maneuver, control, or avoid crashing a vehicle,
whether you are in the pilot’s seat, remote controlling
a robot, or directly jamming a vehicle with VR. Each
vehicle has a Handling modifier that applies to this
test, along with other situational modifiers (see Bots,
Synthmorphs, and Vehicles, p. 195).

Sample Fields: Aircraft, Anthroform (walkers), Exotic
Vehicle, Groundcraft (wheeled or tracked), Space-
craft, Watercraft

Specializations: As appropriate to the field


PROFESSION: (FIELD


Type: Field, Knowledge

Linked Aptitude: COG
What it is: Profession skills indicate training in a

profession practiced in Eclipse Phase. This can indi-

cate either formal training or informal, on-the-job type
training and includes both legal and extralegal trades.

When you use it: Use Profession to perform work-
related tasks for a specific trade (i.e. mining, balancing
accounts, designing a security system, etc.) or to refer-
ence specialized knowledge that someone trained in
that profession might have.

Sample Fields: Accounting, Appraisal, Asteroid Pros-
pecting, Banking, Cool Hunting, Con Schemes,
Distribution, Forensics, Lab Technician, Mining,
Police Procedures, Psychotherapy, Security Ops,
Smuggling Tricks, Social Engineering, Squad Tactics,
Viral Marketing, XP Production

Specializations: As appropriate to the field






ret


———————————SSe Es


PROGRAMMING


Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG (no defaulting)

What it is: Programming is your talent at writing
and modifying software code.

When you use it: Use Programming to write new
programs, modify or patch existing software, break
copy protection, find or introduce exploitable flaws,
write viruses or worms, design virtual settings, and
so on. See The Mesh chapter, p. 234. Programming is
also applied when using nanofabrication devices.
Specializations: AI Code, Malware, Nanofabrication,

Piracy, Simulspace Code


NANOFABRICHTION


Nanofabrication is use of Programming skill to
create objects using a cornucopia machine, fabber,
or maker (see Nanofabricators, p. 327). If you have
appropriate blueprints and raw materials, most
uses of a nanofabricator can be treated as a Simple
Success Test, p. 118. If you wish to create an item
for which you do not have blueprints or the proper
raw materials, however, or you wish to alter an item’s
design, then a Nanofabrication Test is called for. See
Nanofabrication, p. 284.

Specializations: Art, Clothing, Electronics, Food,

Forgery, Weapons


PROTOCOL


Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV

What it is: Protocol is the art of making a good
impression in social settings. This includes keeping
up with the latest memes, trends, gossip, interests and
habits of various (sub)cultural groups.

When you use it: Use Protocol whenever you need
to choose your words carefully, determine who is the
appropriate person to speak to, impress someone with
your grasp of customs, or otherwise fit into a specific
social/cultural grouping. Part etiquette, part street-
wise, Protocol allows you to navigate treacherous
social waters and put people at ease. If the character
is dealing with a suspicious or hostile audience, make
this an Opposed Test against the target’s WIL + WIL
+ SAV.

Specializations: Anarchist, Brinker, Criminal, Factor,

Hypercorp, Infomorph, Mercurial, Reclaimer, Pres-

ervationist, Scum, Ultimate


NEGATING SOCIAL GAFFES


Sometimes a player will make a mistake that their
character never would, whether that’s failing to stand
in the presence of hypercorp royalty, confusing a gang
leader for a peon, or accidentally insulting someone’s
heritage. In cases like this, the player may make a
Protocol Test for the appropriate field in order to
negate the gaffe. If successful, the character never
actually screwed up or at least managed to cover their
tracks without ruffling any feathers.


















SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE


—=














GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


=





Dol AOOAULT


Type: Active, Mental, Psi
Linked Aptitude: WIL (no defaulting)

What it is: Psi Assault is the skill of damaging
another ego’s mind. It can only be purchased by char-
acters with the Psi trait (p. 147).

What it does: Use Psi Assault when attacking
another ego’s mind in psi combat.

Specializations: By sleight


POVCHOSURGERY


Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: INT

What it is: Psychosurgery is the use of machine-
aided psychological techniques to repair, damage, or
manipulate the psyche.

When you use it: Use Psychosurgery to attempt
the tricky process of editing someone’s mind (see
Psychosurgery, p. 229). Psychosurgery can be used
beneficially to help patients who remember their
deaths, feel disconnected after remorphing, or have
experienced other sorts of mental traumas. This skill
may also be used to interrogate, torture, or otherwise
mess with captive minds in a VR environment.
Specializations: Memory Manipulation, Personality

Editing, Psychotherapy


RESEARCH


Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG

What it is: Research is the skill for looking up infor-
mation on the mesh: searching, sifting, mining, and
interpreting data. This includes knowing where to look,
what links to follow, and how to optimize your queries.

When you use it: Use the Research skill whenever
you need to look up the answer to a question, find
databases, search archives, or track down anything
online. Research is typically a Task Action with the
timeframe and difficulty modifier determined by the
gamemaster. See Online Research, p. 249.
Specializations: Tracking, by information type


SUROUNGING


Type: Active, Mental
Linked Aptitude: INT

What it is: Scrounging is your ability to find things,
particularly things of use or value that are concealed,
buried, or hard to find. This includes knowing where to
look and what to look for. Scrounging differs from both
Perception and Investigation in that it is about finding
items hidden among others, and in most cases about
finding something in particular (food, valuables, etc.).

When you use it: Use Scrounging to dumpster-dive a
meal, search ruins for relics, find bargains at a bazaar,
forage berries in the forest, locate a spacesuit in an
abandoned ship, etc. Scrounging is typically handled
as a Task Action with a timeframe and difficulty
modifier determined by the gamemaster.
Specializations: Bazaars, Forests, Habitats, Ruins


SEEKER WEAPONS


Type: Active, Combat

Linked Aptitude: COO
What it is: Seeker Weapons covers the use and main-

tenance of seeker launchers and seeker missiles (p. 340).
When you use it: Use this skill when attacking with

a seeker in ranged combat (p. 191).

Specializations: Armband, Pistol, Rifle, Underbarrel


SENSE


Type: Active, Mental, Psi
Linked Aptitude: INT (no defaulting)

What it is: Sense is the use of psi to scan egos. Only
characters with the Psi trait (p. 147) may purchase
this skill.

What it does: see Psi, p. 220.

Specializations: By sleight


SPRAY WEAPONS


Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: COO
What it is: The Spray Weapons skill covers the use





and maintenance of cone-effect ranged weapons (see
Spray Weapons, p. 340).

When you use it: A player uses their Spray Weapons
skill whenever they are attacking with a spray weapon
in ranged combat (p. 191).

Specializations: Buzzer, Freezer, Shard, Shredder, Torch


SWIMMING


Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: SOM

What it is: Swimming is the art of moving and
not drowning within fluids. It includes floating,
surface swimming, snorkeling, diving, and related
equipment use.

When you use it: Use Swimming whenever you
need to move and survive in water or another liquid
environment. Swimming in a non-threatening envi-
ronment can be handled as a Simple Success Test.
Swimming over a long distance could be handled as
a Task Action. Diving off a cliff into a lake, prevent-
ing yourself from being swept away in a raging river
current, or making sure you’ve set a proper gas mix
for a deep-sea dive, among other things, requires a
Success Test.

Specializations: Diving, Freestyle, Underwater Diving


THROWING WEAPONS


Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: COO

What it is: Throwing Weapons skill covers the use
and maintenance of standard throwing weapons, like
grenades (p. 340).

When you use it: Use Throwing Weapons skill
whenever you are attacking with a throwing weapon
in ranged combat (p. 191).

Specializations: Grenades, Knives, Rocks












USING KNOWLEDGE SKILLS


At first glance, it may seem that Knowledge skills have
fewer in-game applications than Active skills. To some
degree this is the case. The importance of Knowledge
Skills, however, should not be underestimated. While
idat=\vau O)t-\/ar- Meee) (=m a me- Tare lh\e4lale mel Le(=-er- Tale mye) halale Maal 10-1 ee
ies, the real value of Knowledge skills is in helping the
characters—and the players—understand the world of
Eclipse Phase. In particular these skills can be used to
make plans, assess a situation, identify strengths and
weaknesses, evaluate worth, make comparisons, forecast
'e)ge) of] 0) (= mele )xeo)anl=1 yao) aU) ale(=1e-1e-]alemaalsm-] 6) 6) i(e-]e)(-mvel (=) alae
Yofelfolr=1e0) ale)anl (emir. [el Ke) gfe) maul ide) a-] me) mali icela(e-] mee)aik-).4m
me) ax=y.¢-1a 0) ©) (=emr- Ie 010] MO) mel at-] ¢-1 1K) 6M (00). <1 ale KOM 0) a-t-]
into a facility could use Profession: Security Procedures
to evaluate the defenses, Academic: Architecture to
identify covert points of entry, Interests: Sports to plan
their infiltration at a time when the guards are likely to
be distracted, Interests: Triads to identify a local crime
(o] cole) oem dar-)amer-]amy-1) Mu dal=)aamme)a-t-1.@)alem-)alem-laie-lalalemel-t-1e
and Art: Sculpture when picking a valuable art piece
VVnd amNY al celal Kom ogi el-m-laMial-y(e(=1em\Alial-lamury-rem-] 0) 0) ge) elar-1K=1 NV
these skills can be just as beneficial as the Active skills
/ _used to break inside, if not more so because the plan
is more likely to succeed as a result of this preparation.
It is largely up to the gamemaster to enforce how
Gare) edggskils are in their game. The easiest
inte their relevance is to penalize charac-
ake advantage of them. For example,
dn’t use their Profession: Security
==> .¢-100) ©) (=mr-] oko)v{-manlte alam =Jare me) em ey-}iale
hey run across a security system they
red to deal with, eatcin them to impro-
ie






UNARMED COMBAT


Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: SOM

What it is: Unarmed Combat is your ability to attack and
defend without using weapons.

When you use it: Use Unarmed Combat whenever you
want to attack someone with your fists, feet, elbows, knees,
or other body parts in melee combat (p. 191).
Specializations: Implant Weaponry, Kick, Punch, Subdual


While the preceding list represents the skills most com-
monly used in Eclipse Phase, there may be certain skills called
for in a campaign that are not found in this book. In this case,
the gamemaster may work with the players to create a new
skill to fill this void. This option should be used sparingly to


prevent skill bloat, and all skills are subject to approval by


the gamemaster

If you choose to create a new skill, keep in mind that it needs
to be linked to an existing aptitude and should be a skill that
is available to all characters, not just specific to one character.











































COMBAT SUMMARY


Combat is handled as an
'@) 0) oexy-1e i (=)

Attacker rolls attack skill
+/— modifiers.

om \Y/ (=) (1-H BY=Vk=d ale l=) ance)
Fray or melee combat
skill +/— modifiers.

Ranged: Defender rolls
(Fray skill + 2, round
down) +/— modifiers.

If attacker succeeds and
oli mal(e|at-lanaar-lamaal=
target, the attack hits.

Critical hits are armor-
defeating.

An Excellent Success
Take g=t-h¥--mtal-mer-lanrele [=
by +5 (MoS 30+) or +10
(Vi Koyo 0ED

Armor is reduced by
the attack’s Armor
Penetration value (AP).

e The weapon's damage is

reduced by the target's
modified Armor rating
(unless the attack is
armor-defeating).

a hime l-lait-\e (==>. (a=1=10 k-

VColU Tare Mm Mal a=\y ale) (o par-|
wound is also scored.
(Multiple wounds
apply if the damage
exceeds Wound
Threshold by multiple
irae)











































ACTION AND COMBAT


ACTION TURNS AND INITIATIVE








During combat, the game moves in small chunks of time called


Action Turns. The character with the highest Initiative will act
first within those Action Turns. Ml p. 188






ACTIONS


During any given Action Turn, there are 4 different types of
Actions that may be taken. M@ p. 189


@ ~ Automatic Actions: These abilities and effects require no effort
and are “always on.” Mp. 190


Quick Actions: These fast and simple actions take minimal effort.
You can always take 1 Quick Action in an Action Phase, and if you
take only Quick Actions, you may take 3 or more. Mi p. 190


Complex Actions: These actions monopolize your attention. You
can take 1 Complex Action in an Action Phase. M p. 190


~ Task Actions: These long-term activities take more than one Action
Turn to complete; anywhere from 2 turns to 2 years! Mp. 190


COMBAT EXAMPLE & SUMMARY


The combat rules start on p. 191 and are quickly followed by
an example of play and a combat summary. lM pp. 191-193





HEALING AND REPAIR


b CoO cme ceo) iave moe (sim ale] aem si(e) ese [Cer] Muntele e)aMee lim Olsmalstelicre
and synthmorphs mechanically repaired. M@ pp. 208-209


HOSTILE ENVIRONMENTS


The solar system is full of natural dangers that will test even





the most well-prepared explorer. @ p. 200


Mental Health: Trauma to your ego can be crippling—you can't
swap out your ego for a new one like you can a morph. M@ p. 209








CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS





SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE

















Us


Roleplaying games are about creating drama and
adventure, and that usually means action and
combat. Action and combat scenes are the moments
when the adrenaline really gets pumping and the
characters’ lives and missions are on the line.

Combat and action scenarios can be confusing
to run, especially if the gamemaster also needs to
keep track of the actions of numerous NPCs. For
this reason, it’s important for the gamemaster to
detail the action in a way that everyone can visual-
ize, whether that means using a map and miniatures,
software, a dry-erase board, or quick sketches on
a piece of paper. Though many of the rules for
handling action and combat are abstract—allowing
room for interpretation and fudging results to fit
the story—many tactical factors are also incorpo-
rated, so even small details can make a large differ-
ence. It also helps to have the capabilities of NPCs
predetermined and to run them as a group when
possible, to reduce the gamemaster’s burden in the
middle of a hectic situation.


ACTION TURNS


Action scenes in Eclipse Phase are handled in
bite-size chunks called Action Turns, each approxi-
mately 3 seconds in length. We say “approximately”
because the methodical, step-by-step system used to
resolve actions does not necessarily always translate
realistically to real life, where people often pause,
take breaks to assess the situation, take a breather,
and so on. A combat that begins and ends within 5
Action Turns (15 seconds) in Eclipse Phase could
last half a minute to several minutes in real life. On
the other hand, the characters may be in a situation
where their breathing environment decompresses to
vacuum in 15 seconds, so every second may in fact
count. As a rule, gamemasters should stick with 3
seconds per turn, but they shouldn’t be afraid to
fudge the timing either when a situation calls for it.

Action Tuias are meant to be used for combat
and other situations where timing and the order in
which people act is important. If it is not neces-
sary to keep track of who’s doing what so minutely,
you can drop out of Action Turns and return to
“regular” free-form game time.

Each Action Turn is in turn broken down into
distinct stages, described below.


STEP |: ROLL INITIATIVE


At the beginning of every Action Turn, each player
involved in the scene rolls Initiative to determine the
order in which each character acts. For more details,
see Initiative.





STEP 2: BEGIN FIRST ACTION PHASE


Once Initiative is rolled, the first Action Phase
begins. Everyone acts in the first Action Phase (since





everyone has a minimum Speed of 1), unless they
happen to be unconscious, dead, or disabled. Start
with the character with the highest Initiative roll.


STEP 3: DECLARE AND RESOLVE ACTIONS


The character going first now declares and resolves
the actions they will take during this first Action
Phase. Since some actions the character makes may
depend on the outcome of others, there is no need
to declare them all first—they may be announced
and handled one at a time.

As described under Actions (next page), each
character may perform a varying number of Quick
Actions and/or a single Complex Action during
their turn. Alternately, a character may begin or
continue with a Task Action or delay their action
pending other developments (see Delayed Actions,
next page).

A character who has delayed their action may
interrupt another character at any point during this
stage. That interrupting character must complete
this stage in full, then the action returns to the
interrupted character to finish the rest of their stage.


STEP 4: ROTATE AND REPERT


Once the character has resolved their actions for
that phase, the next character in the Initiative order
gets to go, running through Step 3 for themselves.

If every character has completed their actions for
that phase, return to Step 2 and go to the second
Action Phase. Every character with a Speed of 2 or
more gets to go through Step 3 again, in the same
Initiative order (modified by wound modifiers).
Once the second Action Phase is completed, return
to Step 2 for the third Action Phase, where every
character with a Speed of 3 or more gets to go for
a third time. Finally, after everyone eligible to go in
the 3rd Action Phase has gone, return to Step 2 for
a fourth and last Action Phase, where every charac-
ter with a Speed of 4 can act for one final time.

At the end of the fourth Action Phase, return to Step
1 and roll Initiative again for the next Action Turn.


IMITIATIVE


Timing in an Action Turn can be critical—it may mean
life or death for a character who needs to get behind
cover before an opponent draws and fires their gun.
The process of rolling Initiative determines if a char-
acter acts before or after another character.









=.








os


INITIATIVE ORDER


A character’s Initiative stat is equal to their Intuition
+ Reflexes aptitudes divided by 5. This score may be
further modified by morph type, implants, drugs, psi,
or wounds.

In the first step of each Action Turn, every character
makes an Initiative Test, rolling 1d10 and adding their
Initiative stat. Whoever rolls highest goes first, followed
by the other characters in descending order, highest to
lowest. In the event of a tie, characters go simultaneously.


Adam, Bob, and Cami are rolling Initiative. Adam's
Initiative stat is 8, Bob's is 11, and Camis is 6.
Adam rolls a 3, Bob rolls a 2, and Cami rolls an 8.
Adam's total Initiative score is 11 (8 + 3), Bob's is
13 (11 + 2), and Cami's is 14 (6 + 8). Cami rolled
highest, so she goes first, followed by Bob and
then Adam. If Cami and Bob had tied, they would
both go at the same time.





INITIATIVE AND DAMAGE


Characters inflicted with heavy damage or stress have
their Initiative score temporarily reduced by —-1 per
wound or trauma (see Wounds, p. 207, and Trauma,
p. 209). This modifier is applied immediately when
the wound or trauma is taken, which means that it
may modify an Initiative score in the middle of an
Action Turn. If a character is wounded or traumatized
before they go in that Action Phase, their Initiative is
reduced accordingly, which may mean they now go
after someone they were previously ahead of in the
Initiative order.


Before Bob's Action Phase comes up, Bob takes 3
wounds, knocking his Initiative down from 13 to
10. This means that Adam, with an Initiative of 11,
now goes before him.





INITIATIVE AND MOTE


A character may spend a point of Moxie to go first in
an Action Phase, regardless of their Initiative roll (see
Moxie, p. 122). If more than one character chooses
this option, then order is determined as normal first
among those who spent Moxie, followed by those


who didn’t.


OPEED


Speed determines how many times a character can act
during an Action Turn. Every character starts with a
default Speed stat of 1, meaning they can act in the first
Action Phase of the turn only. Certain morphs, implants,
drugs, psi, and other factors may cumulatively increase
their Speed to 2, 3, or even 4 (the maximum), allow-
ing them to act in further Action Phases as well. For
example, a character with Speed 2 can act in the first
and second Action Phases, and a character with Speed


SIMPLIFYING
INITIATIVE


For speedier resolution, simply have characters roll
Initiative once for an entire scene. That Initiative


result stays with them on each Action Turn until
the combat or scenario is over. Likewise, ignore
Talat ahVcomantexehil-lemice)anmMuvelelale ry x


~~ 3. can act in the first through third Action Phases. A
character with Speed 4 is able to act in every Action
Phase. This represents the character’s enhanced reflexes
and neurology, allowing them to think and act much
faster than non-enhanced characters.

If a character’s Speed does not allow them to act
during an Action Phase, they can initiate no actions
during the pass—they must simply bide their time.
The character may still defend themself, however, and
any automatic actions remain “on.” Note that any
movement the character initiated is considered to still
be underway even during the Action Phases they do
not participate in (see Movement, next page).


DELAYED ACTIONS


When it’s your turn to go during an Action Phase,
you may decide that you’re not ready to act yet. You
may be awaiting the outcome of another character’s
actions, hoping to interrupt someone else’s action, or
may simply be undecided about what to do yet. In this
case, you may opt to delay your action.

When you delay your action, you’re putting your-
self on standby. At some later point in that Action
Phase, you can announce that you are now taking
your action—even if you interrupt another character’s
action. In this case, all other activity is put on hold
until your action is resolved. Once your action has
taken place, the Initiative order continues from where
you interrupted.

You may delay your action into the next Action
Phase or even the next Action Turn, but if you do not
take it by the time your next action comes around in
the Initiative order, then you lose it. Additionally, if
you do delay your action into another phase or turn,
then once you take it you lose any action you might
have in that Action Phase.


— ACTIONS


When it’s your turn to act during an Action Phase, you
have many options for what you can do—far too many
to list here. There is only so much you can accomplish
in 3 seconds, however, so some limitations must be
adhered to. The first step is to figure out what type of
action you want to take. In Eclipse Phase, actions are
categorized as Automatic, Quick, Complex, or Task,
based on how much time and effort they entail.






=
jm)
—
Cc)
Cc
co
—
<—
L)
—
=
——
C3
<—


—_
00
co

















SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE








GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


i





AUTOMATIC ACTIONS


Automatic Actions require no effort. These are abili-
ties or activities that are “always on” (assuming you
are conscious) or are otherwise reflexive (they happen
automatically in response to certain conditions, with
no effort from you). Breathing, for example, is an
automatic action—your body does it without con-
scious effort or thinking on your part.

In most cases, Automatic Actions are not something
that you initiate—they are always active or at least on
standby. Certain circumstances, however, will bring
an Automatic Action to bear. Such Automatic Actions
are invoked and handled immediately whenever they
apply, without requiring effort from your character.


RESISTANCE


Resisting damage—whether from combat, a poison, or
a psi attack—is one example of an Automatic Action
that occurs in response to something else.


BASIC PERCEPTION


Your senses are continuously active, accumulating
data on the world around you. Basic perception
is considered an Automatic Action, and so the
gamemaster can call on you to make a Perception
Test whenever you receive sensory input that your
brain might want to notice (see Perception, p. 182).
Likewise, you may ask the gamemaster at any time—
even during other character’s actions—to make
a basic Perception Test, just to find out what your
character is noticing around them.

Because basic perception is an automatic, subcon-
scious activity, however, you will suffer a -20 modifier
for distraction—your attention is focused elsewhere.
In order to avoid the distraction modifier, you must
actively engage in detailed perception or use an oracle
implant, p. 309.


QUICK ACTIONS


Quick Actions are fast and simple, and they may often
be multitasked. They require minimal thought and
effort. You may undertake multiple Quick Actions on
your turn during each Action Phase, limited only by
the gamemaster’s judgment. If you are taking nothing
but Quick Actions during an Action Phase, you should
be allowed a minimum of 3 separate Quick Actions.
If you are also engaging in a Complex or Task Action
during that same Action Phase, you should be allowed
a minimum of 1 Quick Action. Ultimately, the game-
master decides what activity you can or can’t fit into a
single Action Phase.

Some examples of Quick Actions include: talking,
switching a safety, activating an implant, standing
up, dropping prone, gesturing, drawing/readying a
weapon, handling an object, or using a simple object.


HIMING


Aiming is a special case in that it is a Quick Action
but requires a degree of concentration that rules out


other minor actions. If you wish to aim before making
an attack in the same Action Phase, aiming is the only
Quick Action you may make during that Action Phase
(see Aimed Shots, p. 193).


DETHILED PERCEPTION


Detailed perception involves taking a moment to
actively use your senses in search of information and
assess what you are perceiving (see Perception, p. 182).
It requires slightly more effort and brainpower (or
computer power) than basic perception, which is
automatic. As a Quick Action, you may only engage
in detailed perception on your turn during an Action
Phase, but you do not suffer a modifier for distrac-
tion (unless you happen to be in a heavily distracting
environment, such as a gunfight or agitated crowd).


COMPLER ACTIONS


Complex Actions require more concentration and
effort than Quick Actions—they effectively monopo-
lize your attention. You may only take one Complex
Action on each Action Phase. Additionally, you may
not engage in a Complex Action and a Task Action
during the same Action Phase.

Examples of Complex Actions include: attacking,
shooting, acrobatics, full defense, disarming a bomb,
using a complex device, or reloading a weapon.


THoh ACTIONS


A Task Action is any activity that requires longer than one
Action Turn to complete. Each Task Action lists a time-
frame for how long the task takes to accomplish. This
timeframe may range anywhere from 2 Action Turns to 2
years. While engaged in a Task Action, you may not also
undertake a Complex Action, though in some cases you
may take a break from the task and return to it later. For
more information, see Task Actions, p. 120.

Examples of Task Actions include: repairing a
device, programming, conducting a scientific analysis,
searching a room, climbing a wall, or cooking a meal.


MOVEMENT


Movement in Eclipse Phase is handled just like any other
action and may change from Action Phase to Action
Phase. Walking and running both count as Quick Actions,
as they do not require your full concentration. The same
also applies to slithering, crawling, floating, hovering, or
gliding. Running, however, may inflict a-—20 modifier on
other actions that are affected by your jostling movement.
Even more, sprinting is an all-out run, and so requires a
Complex Action (see Sprinting, next page).

At the gamemaster’s discretion, other movement
may also call for a Complex Action. Hurdling a
fence, pole vaulting, jumping from a height, swim-
ming, or freerunning through a habitat in zero-gravity
all require a bit of finesse and attention to detail, so
would count as a Complex Action and would apply
the same modifier as running. Flying generally counts








as a Quick Action, though intricate maneuvers would
call for a Complex Action.


MOVEMENT RATES


Sometimes it’s important to know not just how you’re
moving, but how far. For most of transhumanity, this
movement rate is the same: 4 meters per Action Turn
walking, 20 meters per turn running. To determine
how far a character can move in a particular Action
Phase, divide this movement rate by the total number
of Action Phases in that turn. In a turn with 4 Action
Phases, that breaks down to 1 meter walking per
Action Phase, 5 meters running.

Movement such as swimming or crawling bench-
IMAarecEcteaboutlemeter per Acton lurn, or 0.25
meters per Action Phase. You can also sprint to
increase your movement rate (see Sprinting). Vehicles,
robots, creatures, and unusual morphs will have indi-
vidual movement rates listed in the format of walking
rate/running rate in meters per turn.

These movement rates assume standard Earth
gravity of course. If you’re moving in a low-gravity,
microgravity, or high-gravity environment, things
change. See Gravity, p. 198.


JUMPING


Characters making a running jump can cross SOM + 5
(round up) meters; use SOM + 20 (round up) meters
for standing jumps. Vertical jumping height is 1 meter.
Characters making a Freerunning Test can increase
jumping distance by 1 meter (running jump) or 0.25
meters (standing/vertical jumps) per 10 points of MoS.


SPRINTING


You may use Freerunning to increase the distance
you move during an Action Phase. You must spend
a Complex Action to sprint and make a Freerunning
Test. Every 10 points of MoS increases your running
distance in that Action Phase by 1 meter to a
maximum bonus of +5 meters.








COMBAT


Sometimes words fail, and that’s when the knives and
shredders come out. All combat in Eclipse Phase is
conducted using the same basic mechanics, whether
it’s waged with claws, fists, weapons, guns, or psi: an
Opposed Test between the attacker and defender(s).


RESOLVING COMBAT


Use the following sequence of steps to determine the
outcome of an attack.


STEP |: DECLARE ATTHCK


The attacker initiates by taking a Complex Action to
attack on their turn during an Action Phase. The skill
employed depends on the method used to attack. If
the character lacks the appropriate Combat skill, they
must default to the appropriate linked aptitude.


STEP 2: DECLARE DEFENSE


Once the attack is declared, the defender chooses
how to respond. Defense is always considered an
Automatic Action unless the defender is surprised
(see Surprise, p. 204) or somehow incapacitated and
incapable of defending themself.

Melee: A character defending against melee attacks
uses Fray skill, representing dodging (if the charac-
ter lacks this skill, they may default to Reflexes).
Alternatively, the character may use a melee combat
skill to defend, representing blocks and parries rather
than dodging.

Ranged: Against ranged attacks, a defending char-
acter may only use half their Fray skill (round down).

Full Defense: Characters who have taken a
Complex Action to go on full defense (p. 198) receive
a +30 modifier to their defensive roll.

Psi: A character defending against a psi attack rolls
WIL x 2 (see Opposed Tests, p. 222). A mental sort
of full defense may also be rallied against psi attacks.











SYNOPSIS
WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
ACTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS
THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





















STEP 3: APPLY MODIFIERS

Any appropriate modifiers are applied to the attacker
and defender’s skills. See the Combat Modifiers table
(p. 193) for common situational modifiers.


STEP 2: MAE THE OPPOSED TEST
Both attacker and defender roll d100 and compare the
results to their modified skill target numbers.


STEP 3: DETERMINE OUTCOME


If the attacker fails, the attack misses completely. If the
attacker succeeds and the defender fails, the attack hits.

If both attacker and defender succeed in their tests,
compare their dice rolls. If the attacker’s dice roll is
higher, the attack hits despite a spirited defense; oth-
erwise, the attack fails to connect.

Excellent Success: If the attacker rolled an Excellent
Success (MoS of 30+), a solid hit is struck. Increase
the Damage Value (DV) inflicted by +5. If the MoS is
60+, increase the DV by +10.

Criticals: If the attacker rolls a critical success, the
attack is armor-defeating, meaning that the defender’s
armor is bypassed completely—some kink or flaw
was exploited, allowing the attack to get through
completely.

If the defender rolls a critical success, they dodge with
flair, reach cover that protects from follow-up attacks,
maneuver to a superior position, or otherwise benefit.


STEP 6: MODIFY ARMOR


If the target is hit, their armor will help to protect
them against the attack (unless the attacker rolled a
critical, see above). Determine which type of armor is
appropriate to defending against that particular attack
(see Armor, p. 194). The attack’s Armor Penetration
(AP) value reduces the armor’s rating, however, repre-
senting the weapon’s ability to pierce through protec-
tive measures.


STEP 7: DETERMINE DAMAGE


Every weapon and type of attack has a Damage Value
(DV, p. 207). This amount is reduced by the target’s
AP-modified armor rating. If the damage is reduced to
0 or less, the armor is effective and the attack fails to
injure the target. Otherwise, any remaining damage
is applied to the defender. If the accumulated damage
exceeds the defender’s Durability, they are incapaci-
tated and may die (see Durability and Health, p. 207).

Note that some psi attacks inflict mental stress
rather than physical damage (see Mental Health,
p. 209). In this case, the Stress Value (SV) is handled
the same as DV.


STEP 8: DETERMINE WOUNDS


The damage inflicted from a single attack is then com-
pared to the victim’s Wound Threshold. If the armor-
modified DV equals or exceeds the Wound Threshold,
the character suffers a wound. Multiple wounds may be
applied with a single attack if the modified DV is two
or more factors beyond the Wound Threshold. Wounds


represent more serious injuries and apply modifiers and
other effects to the character (see Wounds, p. 207).


Stoya tried to get off the station quickly, but the
Night Cartel’s assassin caught up, surprising her in
a microgravity part of the habitat. The assassin’s INIT
is 6, plus a dice roll of 2, for an Initiative of 8. Stoya’s
INIT is 5, plus a roll of 2, for an Initiative of 7.

The assassin goes first, spending a Quick Action
to draw a shredder. This flechette weapon is in
burst-fire mode, so with a Complex Action the
assassin can take two shots. His Spray Weapons
skill is 65, he’s smartlinked (+10), and they're at
short range (+0), so he needs a 75 or less. Stoya is
defending with her Fray skill (60) divided by 2, or 30.

The assassin rolls an 08 with the first shot.
Amazingly, Stoya rolls a 28. They both succeeded,
but Stoya rolled higher, so she dodges the first shot.

The assassin rolls a 40 for his second shot,
another hit, and this time Stoya rolls an 83, a failure.
The assassin also scored an Excellent Success with
an MoS of 40, increasing the DV by +5.

The assassin’s base damage is 2d10 + 5, but
he’s using burst fire against a single target for
+1d10, and it's also a cone effect weapon at short
range (an additional +1d10), for a total DV of
4d10 + 5. The assassin rolls 4d10 and gets 16, then
adds the +5 for a total DV of 21.

Stoya’s wearing light body armor (AV 10/10),
but the shredder’s Armor Penetration is —10, so her
armor is entirely negated. She takes a devastat-
ing 21 DV, exceeding her Wound Threshold of 10,
not just once, but twice. This means Stoya suffers 2
wounds from the shot, suffering —20 to all actions.
In addition, she must make two SOM x 3 Tests,
one to avoid knockdown and the other to avoid
unconsciousness. Her SOM is 30, meaning she
needs a 70 (30 x 3 = 90, 90 — 20 wound modi-
fiers = 70) on both rolls. She rolls a 40 and a 27,
succeeding both.

Now it's Stoya’s action. She takes a Quick Action
to pull her own weapon: a stunner. Her Beam
Weapons skill is 47, modified by wounds (—20) and
a smartlink (+10), for 37. The assassin’s Fray is 48,
divided by 2 for 24 against a ranged attack. Stoya
rolls a 22—a critical hit—and the assassin rolls a
68. The stunner only inflicts 1d10 + 2 DV, but since
the attack is a critical hit, this is armor defeating.
Stoya rolls an 8, for 4 points of DV, below the
assassin’s Wound Threshold of 7.

Stunners, however, are shock weapons, so the
assassin must make a DUR + Energy Armor Test.
His DUR is 35, modified by 4 points of damage
taken, and he's wearing an armor vest (AV 6/6), so
his target number is 37. He rolls a 71—a Margin
of Failure of 34, meaning he is immediately inca-
pacitated for 3 Action Turns.

Having disabled her opponent, Stoya takes the
time to make a hasty getaway.










a a SS ila —— —— ee








=n $$ . ————
—— I "
—— SIE <=


Ls — _— — 5 sar.








ie [EE ——


ae
COMBAT SUMMARY COMBAT MODIFIERS


¢ Combat is handled as an Opposed Test.
Attacker rolls attack skill +/— modifiers. GENERAL MODIFIER


Melee: Defender rolls Fray or melee skill
+/— modifiers. Character using off-hand —-20


e Ranged: Defender rolls (Fray skill ~ 2, Character wounded/traumatized —10 per wound/trauma
round down) +/- modifiers. Character has superior position

e If attacker succeeds and rolls higher than the “Touch-o onl attack | pe nee,

defender, the attack hits. a ae —nnnenMeEEKNMANKAAMMKNAENMNNMNKNQKKNtmn

Critical hits are armor-defeating (armor does Called st shot Sciam t  ameceeeenes

not apply). Character wielding two- handed ‘weapon with o one ehand

e Armor is reduced by the attack’s Armor Sm al target (child- sized) a |,
Penetration value (AP). : ye

e The weapon’s damage is reduced by the |
target's modified Armor rating (unless the Large target (car sized) eS eee
attack is armor-defeating). Very large target (side of a ‘barn)

e If the damage exceeds the target's Wound isibility impe red (minor: glare, light smoke, dim light)
Threshold, a wound is also scored. =
(If the damage exceeds the target's
Wound Threshold by multiple factors, Blind attack 80
multiple wounds are inflicted.)


Very small target (mouse c or insect)





Visibility impaired (major: heavy smoke, dark) 20


MELEE COMBAT MODIFIER


‘Character charging a


Combat isn’t quite as simple as deciding if you hit . “mm
i Character receiving a charge.
or miss. Weapons, armor, ammunition, and numer- es ee oe ea ee ee eee





ous other factors may impact an attack’s outcome.
Likewise, various factors can impact an action scene, RANGED COMBAT (ATTACKER) MODIFIER


such as fire or microgravity effects.


AIMED SHOTS


As noted under Aiming, p. 190, a character can sacri-





Attacker using smartlink or laser sight
| Attacker behir
Attacker running.












id cover





Attacker in melee combat
fice their other Quick Actions to concentrate on tar- | “NT


D f n rh minor cover —
geting a ranged attack and receive a +10 modifier on fe de foe abe
















the attack. You can also sacrifice an entire Complex ‘Defender hi has moderate SL ee ee eee eee ee See eee. eee oe
Action to fix your aim on a target. In this case, as long Defender hi has ‘major cover


Defender hi hidden _ —60 -
‘Aimed shot (quick)
Aimed st shot (complex) _ - OS — +30 —





Action Phase, you receive a +30 modifier to hit.


AMMUNITION AND RELOMDING


Every weapon lists an ammunition capacity that indi- nm mann -
; Sweeping fire with beam ‘weapon “+100 on n second shot
cates how many shots the weapon holds. When this a


Multiple targets in same Action Phase | _ 20 per additional target
Indirect fire ere ere nee -30 ore


+10


ammo runs out, a new supply must be loaded. Players





Reloading almost always requires a Complex


should keep track of the shots their characters fire.
S Point-bl blank range (2 meters c or less)


Action, whether you are slapping in a new clip of | Short range |


bullets or a fresh battery for a laser. At the gamemas- | Medium ra nge- ee
ter’s discretion, a reload that is immediately accessible Micnat g range ee | ee
(such as a new clip reverse-taped to the loaded clip, so Be EEE EEO EO EO

ake. Extreme range
that reloading just requires that you reverse the taped
clips and slot the new one in) will only take a Quick
Action. Archaic weapons such as magazine-fed rifles BLAST EFFECT


may require longer to fully load. Blast weapons include items like grenades, mines, and


ee
other explosives that expand outward from a central


AREA EFFECT WEAP 015 detonation point. Most blast attacks expand outward

Some ranged attack weapons are designed to affect in a sphere, though certain shaped charges may direct

more than one target at a time. These weapons fall an explosion in one direction only. The explosive force

into three categories: blast, uniform blast, and cone. is stronger near the epicenter and weaker near the outer
edges of the sphere. For every meter a target is from the
center, reduce the DV of a blast weapon by -2.


> ACTIONS AND COMBAT


fe)
oO





=














SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE








GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


rH





UNIFORM BLAST


Uniform blast attacks distribute their power evenly
throughout the area of effect. Examples include fuel-
air explosives and thermobaric weapons that disperse
an explosive mixture in a vapor cloud and ignite it all
at once. All targets within the noted blast radius suffer
the same damage. Damage against targets outside of
the main blast sphere is reduced by —2 DV per meter.


CONE


Weapons with a cone effect have an area effect that
begins with the tip of the weapon and expands
outward in a cone. At short range, this attack effects
1 target; at medium range it affects 2 targets within
ammeter Of each Other; and at long of eximemesrance
it affects 3 targets within a meter of the next. Cone-
effect attacks do +1d10 damage at short range and
—1d10 damage at long and extreme range.


ARMOR


Just as weapons technologies have advanced, so too
has armor quality, allowing unprecedented levels of
protection. As noted in Step 7: Determine Damage,
(p. 192), the armor rating reduces the damage points
inflicted by the attack.

For a full listing of armor types and values, see p. 312.


ENERGY vs. KINETIC


Each type of armor has an Armor Value (AV) with
two ratings—Energy and Kinetic—representing
the protection it applies against the respective type
Of attack= Uheseraremistcduimetne format of )Enercy
armor/Kinetic armor.” For example, an item with
listed armor “5/10” provides 5 points of armor against
energy-based attacks and 10 points of armor against
kinetic attacks.

Energy damage includes that caused by beam
weapons (laser, microwave, particle beam, plasma,
etc.) as well as fire and high-energy explosives. Armor
that protects against this damage is made of material
that reflects or diffuses such energy, dissipates and
transfers heat, or ablates.

Kinetic damage is the transfer of damaging energy
when an object in motion (a fist, knife, club, or bullet,
for example) impacts with another object (the target).
Most melee and firearms attacks inflict kinetic damage,
as would a rolling boulder, swinging pendulum, or
explosion-driven fragments. Kinetic armors include
impact-resistant plates, shear-thickening liquid and
gels that harden upon impact, and ballistic and cut-
proof fiber weaves.


ARMOR PENETRATION


Some weapons have an Armor Penetration (AP) rating.
This represents the attack’s ability to pierce through
protective layers. The AP rating reduces the value of
armor used to defend against the attack (see Step 6:
Modify Armor, p. 192).





LAYERED ARMOR


If two or more types of armor are worn, the armor
ratings are added together. However, wearing multiple
armor units is cumbersome and annoying. Apply a
—20 modifier to a character’s actions for each addi-
tional armor layer worn. The maximum value Armor
may be raised to is the character’s Durability.

Note that items specifically noted as armor accesso-
ries—helmets, shields, etc.—do not inflict the layered
armor penalty, they simply add their armor bonus.
Note also that the armor inherent to a synthetic
morph or bot’s frame does not constitute a layer of
armor (i.€., you may wear armor over the synthetic
shell without penalty).


OPH YAIATION


The average transhuman can hold their breath for
two minutes before blacking out. Strenuous activity
reduces the amount of time. For every 30 seconds
after the first minute a biomorph is prevented from
breathing, they must make a DUR Test. Apply a
cumulative -10 modifier each time this test is rolled.
If the character fails the test, they immediately fall
unconscious and begin to suffer damage from
asphyxiation at the rate of 10 points per minute until
they die or are allowed to breathe again. This damage
does not cause wounds.

Asphyxiation is a terrifying process, often leading to
panic. Characters who are asphyxiated must make a
WIL x 3 Test. If they fail, they suffer 1d10 + 2 (round
up) mental stress and cannot perform any effective
action to rescue themselves that Action Turn. A char-
acter who succeeds may attempt to rescue themselves,
and in fact they must make a WIL x 3 Test to perform
any other action not directly related to rescuing them-
selves (attacks against another character, a creature,
or an object holding the character underwater are
exempt from this rule).


BEAM WEAPONS


Due to emitting a continuous beam of energy or
stream of pulses rather than single projectiles, beam
weapons are easier to “home in” on a target. This
means one of the following two rules may be used
when making beam weapon attacks. Since most beam
weapons are invisible to standard sight, an attacker
must have vision enhancements enabling them to see
the beam or must activate a built-in visible targeting
laser to take advantage of these rules.


SWEEPING FIRE


An attacker who is making two semi-auto (p. 198)
attacks with a beam weapon with the same Complex
Action and who misses with the first attack may treat
that attack as a free Aim action (p. 190), receiving
a +10 modifier for the second attack. In other words,
though the first attack misses, the character takes the
Opportunity to sweep the beam closer to the target
for the second attack. This only applies when both
attacks are made against the same target.








CONCENTRATED FIRE


A character firing a semi-auto beam
weapon who hits with the first attack may
choose to keep the beam on and concen-
trate their fire, cooking the target. In this
case, the character foregos their second
semi-auto attack with that Complex
Action, but automatically doubles the DV
of the first attack. This decision must be
made before the damage dice are rolled.


BLIND ATTACKS


Attacking a target that you cannot see is
difficult at best and a matter of luck at
worst. If you cannot see, you may make
a Perception Test using some other avail-
able sense to detect your target. If this
succeeds, you attack with a —30 modifier.
If your Perception Test fails, your attack
is primarily based on chance—your target
number for the attack test is equal to your
Moxie stat (no other modifiers apply).


INDIRECT FIRE


With the help of a spotter, you may target
an enemy that you can’t see using indirect
fire. In this case you must be meshed with
a character, bot, or sensor system that has
the target in its sights and which feeds
you targeting data (the gamemaster may
require a Perception Test from the spotter).
Indirect attacks suffer a -30 modifier.

Seeker missiles(p. 340) can home in on
a target that is “painted” with reflected
energy from a laser sight (p. 342) or
similar target designator system. An
“attack” must first be made to paint the
target with the laser sight using an appro-
priate skill. If this succeeds, it negates the
—30 indirect fire modifier for the seeker
launcher’s attack test. The target must be
held in the spotter’s sights (requiring a
Complex Action each Action Phase) until
the seeker strikes.


BOTS, SUNTHMORPHS, AND VEHICLES


Al-operated robots and synthetic morphs
are a common sight in Eclipse Phase.
Robots are used for a wide range of pur-
poses, from surveillance, maintenance,
and service jobs to security and policing
and so may often play a role in action and
combat scenes. Though less common (at
least in habitats), Al-piloted vehicles are
also frequently used and encountered.
Note that the difference between a robot,
vehicle, and synthetic morph is in many
ways semantic. Robots are simply syn-
thetic bodies controlled by an AI. Vehicles
are also robotic—AI controlled—but the


—
_—





%


term “vehicle” is used to denote that they
carry passengers. Both bots and vehicles
can be used as synthetic morphs—that is,
inhabited by a transhuman ego—assum-
ing they are equipped with a cyberbrain
(p. 300). For the purpose of these rules,
the term “shell” is used to refer to bots,
vehicles, and synthetic morphs alike.

Like synthmorphs, bots and vehicles
are treated just like any other charac-
ter: they roll Initiative, take actions,
and use skills. A few specific aspects of
these shells needs special consideration,
however, covered below.


SHELL STATS


Just like synthmorph characters, certain
bot and vehicle stats (Durability, Wound
Threshold, etc.) and stat modifiers
(Initiative, Speed, etc.) are determined by
the actual physical shell. Other stats are
determined by the bot/vehicle’s operating
AI (in place of an ego). Bots and vehicles
may also have traits that apply to their
AI or physical shell. For sample bots and
vehicles, see Robots and Vehicles, p. 343
of the Gear chapter.

Handling: Bots and vehicles have a
special stat called Handling, which is a
modifier applied to all tests made to pilot
the bot/vehicle. This represents the bot/
vehicle’s maneuverability.


SHELL SKILLS


The skills and aptitudes used by a bot or
vehicle are those possessed by its AI. see
Als and Muses, p. 264


SHELL MOVEMENT


Like characters, bots and vehicles have
a walking and running Movement rate.
This is used whenever the bot/vehicle is
engaged in action or combat scenes with
other characters.

Shells that are capable of greater speeds
will also have a Maximum Velocity
listed—this is the highest rate at which the
shell may safely move, listed in kilometers
per hour. At the gamemaster’s discretion,
some shells may push their limits and
accelerate further, but at significant risk—
the gamemaster should apply appropriate
penalties to Pilot Tests and other tests.


CHASES


Shells that are moving faster than their
running Movement rate (up to their Max.
Velocity) are generally considered to be
moving too fast for standard action and
combat interaction with other characters.














CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS





SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE

















AES TS Mica)


Chase Speeds: DV x (velocity + 10)





This is when the action enters “chase scene” mode—a
traveling narrative of maneuvering choices and tests
with various outcomes. Whether or not a chase is
actually occurring, the gamemaster should remember
that Max Velocity is not the only factor in high-
speed situations. Environmental factors like terrain,
weather conditions, navigation, pedestrians, and
traffic can provide obstacles for shells to overcome.
A shell tearing across a habitat in order to reach a
bomb before it detonates should have to make several
decisions and tests that may affect whether it gets
there in time or not. Likewise, a shell seeking to shake
off some hot pursuit will have to pull off some fancy
maneuvering and hopefully find a shortcut or two in
order to outrace their opponents.


CRASHING


Shells that suffer wounds during combat or chases
may be force to make a Pilot Test to avoid crashing
or may crash automatically. The exact circumstances
of a crash are left up to the gamemaster, as best fits
the story—the shell may simply skid to a stop, plow
into a tree, fall from the sky, or flip over and land on
a group of bystanders. Shells that strike other objects
when they crash typically take further damage from
the collision (see Collisions).


COLLISIONS


If a shell crashes into or intentionally rams a person
or object, someone is likely to get hurt. To determine
how much DV is inflicted, roll 1d10 and add the shell’s
DUR divided by 10 (round up). This is the damage
applied at walking speeds. If the shell was moving at
running speeds, multiply the DV by 2. If the shell was
moving at chase speeds, multiply the DV by the shell’s
velocity + 10 in meters per turn. Both the shell and
whatever it strikes suffer this damage, assuming the
collision is with something equal dense and hard. Soft
and squishy objects like biomorphs will be less damag-
ing to a shell (unless they happen to be in a hardsuit
or battlesuit), in which case the shell will only suffer
half damage from the collision. Kinetic armor defends
against crash DV.

If two moving shells collide head-on, calculate the
damage from both and inflict to both. If two shells
moving in the same direction collide, only count the
difference in velocity.

Passengers in a vehicle may also be damaged by col-
lisions if they are not wearing proper safety restraints.
They suffer one half the DV applied to their vehicle
(less their own Kinetic armor).


COLLISION DAMAGE





ATTACKING VERICLE PASSENGERS


During combat, passengers within a vehicle may be
targeted separately from the vehicle itself. Attacks
made against passengers this way do not harm the
vehicle itself (unless an area effect weapon is used).
Targeted passengers benefit both from cover (usually
Major, —30) and from the vehicle’s structure, adding
the vehicle’s Armor Value to their own.

Passengers within a vehicle are generally not harmed
by attacks made against the vehicle itself. Area effect
weapons are an exception to this rule, but in this case
the passengers also benefit from the vehicle Armor Value.


SHELL REMOTE CONTROL


Any shell (or biomorph) with a puppet sock (also
included with all cyberbrains) may be remote controlled,
either by a character or a remotesnl. Mis tiequincssa
communications link between the teleoperator and the
shell (the “drone”). The teleoperator controls the drone
via an entoptic interface, and receives sensory input and
other data via the drone’s mesh inserts.

When under direct control, the shell’s AI (or resident
ego) is subsumed and put on standby. The drone acts
with the same Initiative as the teleoperator, but is still
limited by the shell’s Speed. The teleoperator’s skills and
stats are used in place of the shell AI’s (though the shell’s
aptitude maximums and penalties apply). The teleopera-
tor uses Pilot skills for movement, dodging, and melee
tests, and Gunnery skill for ranged combat. Due to the
nature of remote operation, all tests are made with a -10
modifier. Multiple drones may be controlled at once as
long as they act in unison; the teleoperator must use sep-
arate actions to control them separately. Direct control
teleoperation is not very feasible at extreme distances,
due to the light-speed lag with communications.

Alternately, the teleoperator can put the drone in
autonomous mode, allowing the shell’s AI to resume
normal operations. The drone still follows the tele-
operator’s commands to the best of its abilities. Each
instruction counts as a Quick Action. In this mode,
the drone functions normally, using its own Initiative
and AI skills and stats.


SHELL JAMMING


“Jamming” is the colloquial term for a more direct
form of remote control using VR and XP technol-
ogy. When jamming, the drone’s puppet sock feeds
the drone’s sensory data directly to the teleoperator’s
mesh inserts. The teleoperator subsumes themself in
the drone’s sensorium, essentially “becoming” the
drone. In this case, the teleoperator surrenders control
of their own morph, which slumps inertly. While
jamming, they suffer -60 on all Perception Tests or
attempts to take action with their morph.

Jamming takes a Complex Action to engage and
disengage. A jamming teleoperator controls a drone
as if it were their own morph. Like direct control
teleoperation, the jammer’s own skills and Initiative
are used in place of the drone’s AI, though the shell’s
aptitude maximums apply and physical actions are


EE SS Sil ay _——————— ————<—<—— eam
=")












= . . i LT
Se —<$——— ’





limited by the shell’s Speed. Jammers do not suffer for impact, interrupting their action, and striking
any teleoperation modifiers, but only one drone may right before your charging opponent does. In this
be jammed at a time. situation, you receive a +20 modifier for striking the
If the drone is killed or destroyed, the jammer is charging opponent.

immediately dumped from their connection, resuming

control of their own morph as normal. Getting dumped DEM | LIT] | 15

in this manner is extremely jarring, not the least because The most common use of the Demolitions skill is the
the jammer experienced being killed/destroyed. As a placement, disarming, or manufacture of explosive
result, the jammer suffers 1d10 mental stress. devices, such as superthermite charges (p. 330) or


PALLED cuqTS grenades (p. 340).
Sometimes it’s not enough to just hit your target—you PLACING ERPLOSIVES
need to shoot out a window, knock the knife out of ---— A skilled demolitionist can place charges in a manner




















their hand, or hit that hole in their armor. You may that will boost their effect. They can identify structural
declare that you are making a called shot before vulnerabilities and weak points and focus a blast in
you initiate an attack, choosing one of the outcomes these areas. They can determine how to blast open a
noted below. Called shots suffer a -10 modifier and safe without destroying the contents. They can focus the
require an Excellent Success (MoS 30+). If you beat force of an explosion in a particular direction, increas-
that margin, you succeed with the called shot and the ing the directed force while minimizing splash effects.
results noted below apply. If you don’t beat the margin Each of these scenarios calls for a successful i
but still succeed in the attack, you simply strike your Demolitions Test. The exact result is determined by ™
target as normal. the gamemaster according to the specific scenario. For .
example, using the examples above, targeting a weak ox
BYPASSING ARMOR point could double the damage inflicted on that struc- \
Called shots may be used to target a hole or weak ture. Shaping the charge to direct the force can triple \
point in your opponent’s armor. If you beat the MoS, the damage in that direction, as noted in the superther- ae
you strike an armor-defeating hit, and their armor mite description (p. 330). An Excellent Success is likely e
does not apply. Note that in certain circumstances, to increase an explosive’s damage by +5, whereas a
a gamemaster may rule that an opponent’s armor critical success would allow the blast to ignore armor.
simply doesn’t have a weak spot or unprotected area,
and so disallow such called shots. DISARMING
Disarming an explosive device is handled as an
DISARMING Opposed Test between the Demolitions skills of the
You may take a called shot to attempt to knock a weapon disarmer and the character who set the bomb.
out of an opponent’s hand(s). If you beat the MoS, the
victim suffers half damage from the attack (reduced MAKING EXPLOSIVES
by armor as normal) and must make a SOM x 3 A character trained in Demolitions can make explo-
Test with a -30 modifier to retain hold of the weapon. sives from raw materials. These materials can be
gathered the traditional way or they can be manufac-
SPECIFIC TARGETING tured using a nanofabricator. Even nanofabbers with
You may make a called shot with the intention of hitting restricted settings to prevent explosives creation can
a a specific location or component on your target—for be used, as explosives can be constructed from all
| example: disabling the sensor unit on a bot, sweeping manner of mundane chemicals and materials.
someone’s leg, or poking someone in the eye. If you The timeframe for making explosives is 1 hour per
beat the MoS, you hit the specific targeted spot. The 1d10 points of damage the explosive will inflict. If a
gamemaster determines the result as appropriate to the critical failure is rolled, the demolitionist may acciden- =
attack and target—the component may be destroyed, the tally blow himself up, or the charge may be extremely rman]
opponent may fall or be temporarily blinded, and so on. weaker or more potent than expected (whichever is —
more likely to be disastrous). om |
CHARGING a
An opponent who runs and attacks an opponent in ____ FALLING =
melee combat in the same Action Phase is considered If a character falls, use the Falling =a
to be charging. The attacker suffers a -10 modifier Damage table to determine FALLI NCE DAV FANGl = Da
for charging (instead of the standard —20 for running), what injuries they suffer. Kinetic —
but they receive a damage bonus on account of their armor will mitigate this damage DISTANCE FALLEN DAMAGE =
momentum: increase the damage they inflict by +1d10. at half its value (round down). | /-2meters —s_ tal0_ Se
Gamemasters may also reduce coll ="
RECEIVING A CHARGE this damage if anything helped 6-8 meters
You may delay your action (see Delayed Actions, to break the fall (branches, soft [aa 41 per meter A
p. 189) in order to receive a charge, bracing yourself surface) at their discretion.


=_
co
~
















SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


rIAE


Objects that come into contact with extreme heat or
flames may catch fire at the gamemaster’s discretion,
keeping in mind both the flammability of the material
and the strength of the heat/flames. Burning items (or
characters) will suffer 1d10 + 2 (round up) damage
each Action Turn unless otherwise noted. Energy
armor will protect against this damage, though it
too may catch fire, reducing its value by the damage
inflicted. Depending on the environmental conditions,
fires are likely to grow larger unless somehow abated.
Every 5 Action Turns, increase the DV inflicted (first
to 1d10, then 2d10, then 3d10, then by increments
of +5). Adverse conditions (such as rain) or efforts to
extinguish the blaze will reduce the DV accordingly.

Note that fire does not burn in vacuum. In micro-
gravity, fire burns in a sphere and grows more slowly,
as expanding gases push away the oxygen (increase
the DV every 10 Action Turns). If there is a lack of
air circulation, some microgravity fires may extin-
guish themselves.


FIRING MODES AND RATE OF FIRE


Every ranged weapon in Eclipse Phase comes with one
or more firing modes that determines their rate of fire.
These firing modes are detailed below.


SINGLE SHOT (55)


Single shot weapons may only be fired once per
Complex Action. These are typically larger or more
archaic devices.


SEMI-AUTOMATIC (5A)


Semi-automatic weapons are capable of quick,
repeated fire. They may be fired twice with the same
Complex Action. Each shot is handled as a separate
attack.


BURST FIRE (BF)


Burst fire weapons release a number of quick shots
(a “burst”) with a single trigger pull. Two bursts may


be fired with the same Complex Action. Each burst
is handled as a separate attack. Bursts use up 3 shots
worth of ammunition.

A burst may be shot against a single target (concen-
trated fire) or against two targets who are standing
within one meter of each other. In the case of con-
centrated fire against a single target, the attacker can
choose either a +10 modifier to hit or increase the
DV by +1d10.


FULL AUTOMATIC (FA)


Full-auto weapons release a hail of shots with a single
trigger pull. Only one full-auto attack may be made
with each Complex Action. This attack may be made
on a single target or against up to three separate
targets, as long as each is within one meter of another.
In the case of concentrated fire on a single individual,
the attacker can choose either a +30 modifier to hit
or increase the DV by +3d10. Firing in full automatic
mode uses up 10 shots.


FULL DEFENSE


If you’re expecting to come under fire, you can
expend a Complex Action to go on full defense. This
represents that you are expending all of your energy
to dodge, duck, ward off attacks, and otherwise get
the hell out of the way until your next Action Phase.
During this time, you receive a +30 modifier to defend
against all incoming attacks.

Characters who are on full defense may use
Freerunning rather than Fray skill to dodge attacks,
representing the gymnastic movements they are
making to avoid being hit.


ORAVITY


Most characters in Eclipse Phase have considerable
experience maneuvering in low gravity or micrograv-
ity and can perform normal actions without penalties.
Even characters who grew up on planetary bodies or in
rotating habitats have some familiarity with alternate
gravities thanks to childhood training in simulspace














educational scenarios. The same is also true in reverse;
characters who grew up in free fall have likely experi-
enced simulations of life in a gravity well.

At the gamemaster’s discretion, characters who
have spent long periods acclimating to one range of
gravity may find a shift in conditions a bit challeng-
ing to cope with, at least until they grow accustomed
to the new gravity. In this case, the gamemaster can
apply a -10 modifier to both physical and social skills.
The physical penalty results from simple difficulties
in maneuvering. The social penalty applies because
it’s hard to look impressive, intimidating, or seductive
when you haven’t figured out how to arrange your
clothes so that they don’t float up into your face. The
physical penalty can be increased to —20 for situa-
tions involving combat skills and skills requiring fine
manipulation, building, or repairing of items. These
penalties will apply until the character adjusts, which
typically takes about 3 days.

Any biomorph with basic biomods (p. 300) is
immune to ill health from the effects of long-term
exposure to microgravity.


MICROGRAVITY


Microgravity includes both zero g and gravities that

are slightly higher but negligible. These conditions are

found in space, on asteroids and some small moons,

and on (parts of) spaceships and habitats that are not

rotated for gravity. Objects in microgravity are effec-

tively weightless, but size and mass are still factors.
Things behave differently in microgravity:


e Objects not anchored will tend to drift in what-
ever direction they were last moving. Floating
objects will eventually settle in the direction of
the densest part of the habitat or spacecraft.

e Thrown or pushed items will travel in a straight
line until they hit something.

e Smoke does not rise in streams. Instead, it forms
a roughly spherical halo around its source.

e Liquids have little cohesion, scattering into
clouds of tiny droplets if released into the air.
Drinks come in sealed bulbs or bottles. Food
is eaten so that sauces and bits of liquid don’t
escape. Blood goes everywhere.


Movement and maneuvering in microgravity 1s
handled using the Free Fall skill (p. 179). Most every-
day activity in free fall does not require a test. The
gamemaster can, however, call for a Free Fall Test for
any complicated maneuvers, flying across major dis-
tances, sudden changes in direction or velocity, or when
engaged in melee combat. A failed roll means the char-
acter has miscalculated and ends up in a position other
than intended. A Severe Failure means the character has
screwed up badly, such as slamming themselves into a
wall or sending themselves spinning off into space.

For convenience, most microgravity habitats
feature furniture covered with elastic loops, mesh
pockets to keep individual objects from floating all


SS —————————— —__ ;






i


over the place, and moving beltways with hand loops
for major thoroughfares. Magnetic or velcro shoes
are also used to walk around, rather than climbing
or flying. Zero-g environments are often designed to
make maximum use of space, however, taking advan-
tage of the lack of ceilings and floors. Because object
are weightless, characters can move even massive
objects around easily.

Movement Rate: Characters who are climbing,
pulling, or pushing themselves along move at half
their movement rate (p. 191) in microgravity.

Terminal Velocity: It is not difficult to reach escape
velocity on small asteroids and similar bodies—
something to keep in mind with thrown objects and
projectile weapons. In some cases, characters who
move fast enough and jump can reach escape veloc-
ity themselves, though these situations are left up to
the gamemaster.


LOW GRAVITY


Low gravity includes anything from 0.5 g to micro-
gravity. These conditions are found on Luna, Mars,
Titan, and the rotating parts of most spun spacecraft
and habitats. Low gravity is not that different from
standard gravity, though characters may jump twice
as far and thrown/projectile objects have a longer
range (see Weapon Ranges table, see p. 203). Increase
the running rate for characters in low gravity by x1.5.


HIGH GRAVITY


High gravity is anything significantly stronger than
standard Earth gravity (1.2+ g). High gravity in
Eclipse Phase is typically only found on exoplanets.
High gravity can be particularly hard on characters
as their bodies are strained because they carry more
weights, muscles are fatigued from needing to push
more around, and the heart must work harder to
pump blood. For every 0.2 g over 1 that a character is
not acclimated to, treat it as if the character is suffer-
ing from the effects of 1 wound. At the gamemaster’s
discretion, movement rates may also be modified.


ORENADES AND SEERERS


Modern grenades, seekers, and similar explosives do
not necessarily detonate the instant they are thrown
or strike the target. In fact, several trigger options
are available, each set by the user when deploying
the weapon. Missed attacks or attacks that do not
explode in transit or when they strike are subject to
scatter (p. 204).

Airburst: Airburst means that the device explodes in
mid-air as soon as it travels a distance programmed
at launch. In this case, the explosive’s effects are
resolved immediately, in that user’s Action Phase.
Note that airburst munitions are programmed with a
safety feature that will prevent detonation if they fail
to travel a minimum precautionary distance from the
launcher, though this can be overridden.

Impact: The grenade or missile goes off as soon as it
hits something, whether that be the target, ground, or















199 |


> ACTIONS AND COMBAT










—


|
[a









=











SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE








GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


m4





an intervening object. Resolve the effects immediately,
in the user’s Action Phase.

Signal: The munition is primed for detonation upon
receiving a command signal via wireless link. The
device simply lays in wait until it receives the proper
signal (which must include the cryptographic key
assigned when the grenade was primed), detonating
immediately when it does.

Timer: The device has a built-in timer allowing the
user to adjust exactly when it detonates. This can be
anywhere from 1 second to days, months, or even
years later, effectively using the device like a bomb,
but also increasing the likelihood it will be discov-
ered and neutralized. The minimum detonation
period—1 second—means that the munition will
detonate on the user’s (current) Initiative Score in the
next Action Phase. A 2-second delay would last two
Action Phases, a 3-second delay three Action phases,
and so on.


THROWING BACK GRENADES


It is possible that a character may be able to reach
a grenade before it detonates and throw it back (or
away in a Sale direction). The character mustspe
within movement range of the grenade’s location, and
must take a Complex Action to make a REF + COO +
COO Test to catch the rolling, sliding grenade. If they
succeed, they may throw the grenade off in a direc-
tion of their choice with the same action (treat as a
standard throwing attack).

If the character fails the test, however, they may
find themselves at ground zero when it detonates.


JUMPING ON GRENADES


Given the possibility of resleeving, a character may
decide to take one for the team and throw themselves
on a grenade, sacrificing themselves in order to protect
others. The character must be within movement range
of the grenade’s location and must take a Complex
Action to make a REF + COO + WIL Test to fall on
the grenade and cover it with their morph. This means
the character suffers an extra 1d10 damage when the
grenade detonates. On the positive side, the grenade’s
damage is reduced by the sacrificing character’s
armor + 10 when its damage effects are applied to
others within the blast radius.

If the gamemaster feels it appropriate, a WIL x 3
Test might be called for in order for a character to
sacrifice themselves in this manner.


HOSTILE ENVIRONMENTS


The solar system might be friendly to life on a
grand scale, but if you’re stranded in the gravity
well of Jupiter during a magnetic storm, trying to
breathe without a respirator on Mars, or swimming
in hard vacuum without a space suit, it doesn’t
seem so friendly. This section describes a few of
the hostile environments that characters in Eclipse
Phase might face.


ATMOSPHERIC CONTAMINATION


Habitats sometimes fall ill. The effects of a habitat
suffering from ecological imbalance or out-of-control
pathogens can range from mildly allergenic habitat
atmospheres to rampaging environmental sepsis.
Characters without breathing or filtration gear in a
contaminated environment should suffer penalties
to physical and possibly social skills, ranging from
-10 (mild contamination) to —30 (severely septic
atmosphere). Depending on the contamination, other
effects may apply, as the gamemaster sees fit.


EATREME WERT AND COLD


Planetary environments can range from the extremely
hot (Venus, Mercury’s day side) to the extremely frigid
(Neptune, Titan, Uranus). Both are likely to kill an
unprotected and unmodified biomorph within minutes,
if not seconds. Synthmorphs and vehicles fare better,
especially in the cold, but even they are likely to quickly
succumb to the blazing furnaces of the inner planets
without strong heat shields and cooling systems.


EATREME PRESSURE


Similarly, the atmospheric pressures of Jupiter, Saturn,
and Venus quickly become crushingly deadly any-
where beyond the upper levels. Only synthmorphs and
vehicles with special pressure adaptations can hope to
survive such depths.


GRAVITY TRANSITION ZONES


The widespread use of artificial gravity in space habi-
tats means that characters will often encounter places
where the direction of down suddenly changes. In
most rotating habitats, the standard design includes an
axial zone where spacecraft can dock in microgravity
and a carefully designed and marked transition zone
(usually an elevator) where people and cargo coming
and going from the axial spaceport can orient to local
“down” and be standing in the right place when gravity
takes effect. Gravity transitions in rotating habitats are
almost always gradual but can be very dangerous if a
character encounters them in the wrong place or time.
A character cast adrift in the microgravity zone at
the axis of a rotating space habitat will slowly drift
outward until they begin to encounter gravity, at
which point they will fall. How long this takes varies
on the size of the habitat. A good rule of thumb is
that for each kilometer of diameter possessed by the
habitat, the character has 30 seconds before they begin
to fall. If the character was given a good push out from
the axis when set adrift, this time should be halved,
quartered, or more at the gamemaster’s discretion.


MAGHETIC FIELDS


Magnetism isn’t a direct problem for most charac-
ters; transhumans need to worry more about the
radiation generated by a powerful magnetosphere. For
unshielded electronic devices and similarly unshielded
transhumans sporting implants or shells made from



















; = ————— SS —<— se —— —_ =, a.  &§
Ce 5 a a ee — ——— = — : = ey
_— a














magnetic materials, however, the effects of strong
magnetic fields can be devastating. Note that many
of the conditions that result in vehicles, bots, and gear
being exposed to strong magnetic field activity coin-
cide with strong radioactivity.

Magnetic fields affect synthmorphs, robots, vehicles,
cybernetic implants, and electronics after 1 minute of
exposure. Like radiation exposure, these effects can
vary drastically. At the low end, communication and
sensors will suffer interference and shortened ranges;
at high ends, electronic systems will simply suffer
damage and fail.


RADIATION


Ionizing radiation is one of the more prevalent
hazards in the solar system and one of the most dif-
ficult problems for transhumanity to defeat. Radiation
damages genetic material, sickens, and kills by ion-
izing the chemicals involved in cell division within the
human body. Effects range from nausea and fatigue to
massive organ failure and death. However, radiation
sickness is not solely a somatic phenomenon. The real
terror of radiation for transhumans, especially at high
dose levels such as those experienced on the surface
of Ganymede and other Jovian moons, is damage to
the neural network. This can lead to flawed uploads
and backups. Nanomedicine that can rapidly reverse
the ionization of cellular chemicals and new materi-
als that offer thinner and better shielding help, but
the sheer magnitude of the radiation put out by some
bodies in the solar system defeats even these.

Radiation poisoning is a complicated affair, and
detailed rules are beyond the scope of this book.
Sources of radiation include the Earth’s Van Allen
belt, Jupiter’s radiation belt, Saturn’s magnetosphere,
cosmic rays, solar flares, fission materials, unshielded
fusion or antimatter explosions, and nuclear blasts,
among others. Effects can vary drastically depend-
ing on the strength of the source, the amount of time
exposed, and the level of shielding available. The
immediate effects on biomorphs (manifesting any-
where from within minutes to 6 hours) can include
nausea, vomiting, fatigue (reduced SOM), as well as
both physical damage and minor amounts of mental
stress. This is followed by a latency period where the
biomorph seems to get better, lasting anywhere from
6 hours to 2 weeks. After this point, the final effects
kick in, which can include hair loss, sterility, reduced
SOM and DUR, severe damage to gastric and intesti-
nal tissue, infections, uncontrolled bleeding, and death.

Synthmorphs are not quite as vulnerable as bio-
morphs, but even they can be damaged and disabled
by severe radiation dosages.


TORIC ATMOSPHERE


Neptune, Titan, Uranus, and Venus all have toxic
atmospheres. Similar atmospheres may be found on
some exoplanets, or might be intentionally created as
a security measure within a habitat or structure.


A character who is unaware of atmospheric toxicity
and does not immediately hold their breath (requir-
ing a REF x 3 Test) suffers 10 points of damage
per Action Turn. A character who manages to hold
their breath can last a bit longer; apply the rules for
asphyxiation (p. 194).

Corrosive Atmospheres: In addition to being toxic,
Venus has the only naturally occurring corrosive
atmosphere in the system. Corrosive atmospheres are
immediately dangerous: characters take 10 points of
damage per Action Turn, regardless of whether they
hold their breath or not. Corrosive atmospheres also
damage vehicles and gear not equipped with anti-cor-
rosive shielding. Such items take 1 point of damage
per minute. At greater concentrations, such as in the
dense sulfuric acid clouds in the upper atmosphere
of Venus, items takes 5 points of damage per minute.


UNBRERTHABLE ATMOSPHERE


Very few of the planetary bodies in the solar system
actually have toxic atmospheres. In most unbreath-
able atmospheres, the primary hazard for transhu-
mans without breathing apparatus or modifications
to their morph is lack of oxygen. Treat exposure to
unbreathable atmospheres the same as asphyxiation.


UNDERWATER


In general, any physical skill performed underwater
suffers a —20 penalty due to the resistance of the
medium. Skills relying on equipment not adapted for
underwater use may be more difficult or impossible to
use. A character’s movement rate while swimming or
walking underwater is one quarter their normal rate on
land. If a character begins to drown underwater, follow
the rules for asphyxiation (p. 194). Note that drowning
characters do not immediately recover if rescued from
the water; they will continue to asphyxiate until medical
treatment is applied to clear the water from their lungs.


VACUUM


Biomorphs without vacuum sealing (p. 306) can spend
one minute in the vacuum of space with no ill effects,
provided they curl up into a ball, empty their lungs
of air, and keep their eyes closed (something kids in
space habitats learn at a very young age). Contrary
to popular depictions in pre-Fall media, a character
exposed to hard vacuum does not explosively decom-
press, nor do their internal fluids boil (other than rela-
tively exposed liquids such as saliva on the tongue).
Rather, the primary danger for characters on EVA
sans vacsuit is asphyxiation due to lack of oxygen and
associated complications such as edema in the lungs.
After one minute in space, the character begins to
suffer from asphyxiation (p. 194). Damage is doubled
if the character holds air in their lungs or is not curled
up in a vacuum survival position. Additionally, char-
acters trapped in space without adequate thermal pro-
tection suffer a -10 modifier to all actions and 2 DV
per minute from the extreme cold and other factors.


> ACTIONS AND COMBAT


201








SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE








GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE












4 Baseball
PlasmaTorh








IMPROVISED WEAPONS


ARMOR


WEAPONS PENETRATION (AP) DAN PANG] ia Y/AV RU) oan (DAD)


se 1d10 + (SOM = 10)





IMPROVISED WEAPONS


Sometimes characters are caught off-guard and they
must use whatever they happen to have at hand as
a weapon—or they think they look cool wailing
on someone with a meter of chain. The Improvised
Weapons table offers statistics for a few likely ad-hoc
items. Gamemasters can use these as guidelines for
handling items that aren’t listed.


KNOCKDOWN /KNOCKBACH


If an attacker’s intent is to simply knock an opponent
down or back in melee, rather than injure them, roll
the attack and defense as normal. If the attacker suc-
ceeds, the defender is knocked backward by 1 meter
per 10 full points of MoS. To knock an opponent
down, the attacker must score an Excellent Success
(MoS 30+). A knockback/knockdown attack must be
declared before dice are rolled.

Unless the attacker rolls a critical success, no
damage is inflicted with this attack, the defender is
simply knocked down. If the attacker rolls a critical
hit, however, apply damage as normal in addition to
the knockback/knockdown.

Note that characters wounded by an attack may
also be knocked down (see Wound Effects, p. 207).


MELEE AND THROWN DAMAGE BONUS


Every successful melee and thrown weapon attack,
whether unarmed or with a weapon, receives a
damage bonus equal to the attacker’s SOM + 10,
round down. see Damage Bonus, p. 122.


MULTIPLE THRGETS


When doling out the damage, there’s no reason not to
share the love.


MELEE COMBAT


A character taking a Complex Action to engage in a
melee attack may choose to attack two or more oppo-
nents with the same action. Each opponent must be
within one meter of another attacked opponent. These
attacks must be declared before the dice are rolled for
the first attack. Each attack suffers a cumulative —20
modifier for each extra target. So if a character declares
they are going to attack three characters with the same
action, they suffer a cumulative —40 on each attack.


_ 1+ (SOM = 10), breaks after 1use


AVERAGE DV
2+ (50M 10) Throwing Weapons


1 + (SOM = 10) ~ Clubs or Throwing Weapons

4 Blades
10) __Clubs or Throwing Weapons

— BroticRanged


5 + (SOM + 10)


RANGED COMBAT


A character firing two semi-auto shots with a Complex
Action may target a different opponent with each shot.
In this case, the attacker suffers a -20 modifier against
the second target.

A character firing a burst-fire weapon may target up
to two targets with each burst, as long as those targets
are within one meter of one another. This is handled
as a single attack; see Burst Fire, p. 198.

A character firing a burst-fire weapon twice with
one Complex Action may target a different person or
pair with each burst. In this case, the second burst
suffers a -20 modifier. This modifier does not apply
if the same person/pair targeted with the first burst is
targeted again.

Full-auto attacks may also be directed at more than
one target, as long as each target is within one meter
of the previous target. This is handled as a single
attack; see Full Automatic, p. 198.


OBJECTS AND STRUCTURES


As any poor wall in the vicinity of an enraged drunk
can tell you, objects and structures are not immune
to violence and attrition. To reflect this, inanimate
objects and structures are given Durability, Wound
Threshold, and Armor scores, just like characters.
Durability measures how much damage the structure
can take before it is destroyed. Armor reduces the
damage inflicted by attacks, as normal. For simplic-
ity, a single Armor rating is given that counts as both
Energy and Kinetic armor; at the gamemaster’s discre-
tion, these may be modified as appropriate.

Wounds suffered by objects and structures do not have
the same effect as wounds inflicted on characters. Each
wound is simply treated as a hole, partial demolition, or
impaired function, as the gamemaster sees fit. Alternately,
a wounded device may function less effectively, and so
may inflict a negative modifier on skill tests made while
using that object (a cumulative -10 per wound).

In the case of large structures, it is recommended
that individual parts of the structure be treated as
separate entities for the purpose of inflicting damage.


RANGED ATTACKS


Ranged combat attacks inflict only one-third their
damage (round down) on large structures such


=» —————EE SSE a a —
—e Ne ee 0 a a











a ae ek


SAMPLE OBJECTS AND STRUCTURES


. WOUND WOUND
~ OBJECT/STRUCTURE ARMOR DURABILITY THRESHOLD OBJECT/STRUCTURE ARMOR DURABILITY THRESHOLD


Advanced Composites -Ecto link


__(ship/habitat hull) | Metallic Foam (walls, doorsetc) = 2070S
“Aerogel ( (walls, windows, etc.) ee ae) ae ered “Metallic G Glass Oe eee ae
Airlock Door 5 «©6100 Polymer or Wood >


Alloys, Concrete, Hardened Polymers == (walls, doors, furniture, etc)
(reinforced doors/wallsy) Quantum F Farcaster Link


Armored Glass 1050.20‘ Transparent Alumina (walls furniture) = 55 601
Counter eT ee TY Cer © eee ere eer ioe Si Sesh PES sete on cet Pace tee etd eel ee Ug ot
Desk Window





as doors, walls, etc. This reflects the fact that most
ranged attacks simply penetrate the structure, leaving


minor damage. WEAPON RYAN AVC GT aps


Agonizers and stunners have no effect on objects
SHORT MEDIUM LONG EXTREME


WEAPON (TYPE) RANGE VAY CC] om Cow OO) Mm AWAY CG] om CPZ O) mm WAVANLG] oi (xe 0))
SHOOTING THROUGH Firearms


If a character attempts to shoot through an object or | _Light Pistol ee 1-25 26-40-60
structure at a target on the other side, the attack is Medium Pistol — 11- 30, —31- 50. EI -70
likely to suffer a blind fire modifier of at least -30 — HeavyPistol =~ cit 35 Oe 36 60 ee 61. 80 -_


and structures.


unless the attack has some way of viewing the target. | SMG — 30 31-80. — 81K 125 —— 126- 2 30 -
Assault R Rifle. Bt ss 251: 500 _ 501- -900_ 7
Sniper Rifle VN 401-1,100 1,002,300
RANGE __ Machine a ae
Every type of ranged weapon has a limited range, | Railguns-


beyond which it is ineffective. The effective range of as Firearms but increase the effective range in each category by +50%
the weapon is further broken down into four catego- Beam Weapons


On top of this, the target receives an armor bonus
equal to the object/structure’s Armor rating x 2.


ries: Short, Medium, Long, and Extreme. A modifier Cybernetic endian 0300 3 1- 80 le
is applied for each category, as noted on the Combat Laser Pulser : 0- 3 0 : : Bie z 00 1 0 7 50 “151-250
Modifiers table, p. 193. Ranges are listed in meters.


Microwave Agonizer 0-5 15 1630 31-50
Particle Beam Bolter cs 0-30 ~ 31-100 a __101- ae 151 =
RANGE, GRAVITY, AND VACUUM - Stunner o- 10 Ht 25 26-40 41-60


ranges of kinetic, seeker, Spray, and thr Own Weapons ig - Seeker Minimissile -—. 4 - 151: -300 -~ -301- =i 000 d ,001- = 000.


cn potently increas in lower raviy environments |e ead me ee ENE


For examples of specific weapon ranges, see the
Weapon Ranges table.


due to lack of gravitational forces or aerodynamic


Buzzer Be 0-5 oe 6-1 2 a a (31-50 _
ties, use the same effective ranges listed, but extend eaiicezcie 5 Ree eae oneal Oe 5 Ce & 15 aes: eee 31. -50 a


the maximum range by dividing it by the gravity Shard Pistol O- -10 Me -30 — 31-30 | ; 51- -70 a
(for example, a max range of 100 meters would be . Sapeaialer 0- 10 11-40 n- 100


drag, accuracy is still the defining factor for determin-
ing whether you hit or miss a target. In lower gravi-


200 meters in 0.5 g). In microgravity and zero g, the Sprayer Be 0- 5 Oo 6- 15 96 3g —31- 50 _—
maximum range is effectively line of sight. Likewise, foarte ae ae oO 5 ee 45 REE Ta es Et 50 a
under high-gravity conditions (over 1 g), divide each ~ Vortex Ring G Gun accel “Oo 5 meetin 2 1516-30 "345°
range category maximum by the gravity (e.g., a short — ee i
range of 10 meters would be 5 meters in 2 g). “Thrown Weapons ee ee eee — OREN Daa
Beam weapons are not affected by gravity, but they - Blades — TO SOM = 5 To SOM = 2 _ To SoM — TOSOM x 2 —
do fare much better in non-atmospheric conditions. | _ ~ Minigrenades Sones ie SOM = oy _ To SOM. _ “To SOM x Da To SOM x 3
Maximum beam weapon range in vacuum is effec- Standard Grenades  ToSOM+5 ToSOM=2  ToSOM  ToSOMx3


tively line of sight.


ue eh fF hh oe

















SCARS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE








GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


=





REACH


Some weapons extend a character’s reach, giving them
a significant advantage over an opponent in melee
combat. This applies to any weapon over half a meter
long: axes, clubs, swords, shock batons, etc. Whenever
one character has a reach advantage over another, they
receive a +10 modifier for both attacking and defending.


SCATTER


When you are using a blast weapon, you may still
catch your target in the blast radius even if you fail to
hit them directly. Weapons such as grenades must go
somewhere when they miss, and exactly where they
land may be important to the outcome of a battle. To
determine where a missed blast attack falls, the scatter
rules are called into play.

To determine scatter, roll a d10 and note where the
die “points” (using yourself as the reference point).
This is the direction from the target that the missed
blast lands. The die roll also determines how far away
the blast lands, in meters. If the MoF on the attack is
over 30, this distance is doubled. If the MoF exceeds
60, the distance is tripled. This point determines the
epicenter of the blast; resolve the effects of damage
against anyone caught within its sphere of effect as
normal (see Blast Effect, p. 193).

Alternatively, roll a d10 and consult the scatter
diagram below to determine direction and roll
another d10 to determine range as noted above.





SHOCK ATTACKS


Shock weapons use high-voltage electrical jolts
to physically stun and incapacitate targets. Shock
weapons are particularly effective against biomorphs
and pods, even when heavily armored. Synthmorphs,
bots, and vehicles are immune to shock weapon effects.

A biomorph struck with a shock weapon must make
a DUR + Energy Armor Test (using their current DUR
score, reduced by damage they have taken). If they
fail, they immediately lose neuromuscular control,
fall down, and are incapacitated for 1 Action Turn
per 10 full points of MoF (minimum of 3 Action
Turns). During this time they are stunned and inca-
pable of taking any action, possibly convulsing, suf-
fering vertigo, nausea, etc. After this period, they may
act but they remain stunned and shaken, suffering
a -30 modifier to all actions. This modifier reduces
by 10 per minute (so —20 after 1 minute, -10 after 2


minutes, and no modifier after 3 minutes). Many shock
weapons also inflict DV, which is handled as normal.

A biomorph that succeeds the DUR Test is still
shocked but not incapacitated. They suffer half the
listed DV and suffer a -30 modifier until the end of
the next Action Turn. This modifier reduces by 10 per
Action Turn. Modifiers from additional shocks are
not cumulative, but will boost the modifier back to
its maximum value.


SUBDURL


To grapple an opponent in melee combat, you must
declare your intent to subdue before making the die
roll. Any appropriate melee skill may be used for the
attack; if wielding a weapon, it may be used as part of
the grappling technique. If you succeed in your attack
with an MoS equal to or higher than your target’s
Durability, you have successfully subdued your oppo-
nent (for the moment, at least). Grappling attacks do
not cause damage unless you roll a critical success
(though even in this case you can choose not to).

A subdued opponent is temporarily restrained or
immobilized. They may communicate, use mental
skills, and take mesh actions, but they may not take
any physical actions other than trying to break free.
(At the gamemaster’s discretion, they may make small,
restrained physical actions, such as reaching for a
knife in their pocket or grabbing an item dropped a
few centimeters away on the floor, but these actions
should suffer at least a -30 modifier and may be
noticed by their grappler).

To break free, a grappled character must take a
Complex Action and succeed in either an Opposed
Unarmed Combat Test or an Opposed SOM x 3 Test,
though the subdued character suffers a -30 modifier
on this test.


SUPPRESSIVE FIRE


A character firing a weapon in full-auto mode (p. 198)
may choose to lay down suppressive fire over an area
rather than targeting anyone specifically, with the
intent of making everyone in the suppressed area keep
their heads down. This takes a Complex Action, uses
up 20 shots, and lasts until the character’s next Action
Phase. The suppressed area extends out in a cone, with
the widest diameter of the cone being up to 20 meters
across. Any character who is not behind cover or who
does not immediately move behind cover on their
action is at risk of getting hit by the suppressive fire. If
they move out of cover inside the suppressed area, the
character laying down suppressive fire gets one free
attack against them, which they may defend against
as normal. Apply no modifiers to these tests except
for range, wounds, and full defense. If hit, the struck
character must resist damage as if from a single shot.


SURPRISE


Characters who wish to ambush another must seek
to gain the advantage of surprise. This typically
means sneaking up on, lying in wait, or sniping from








a hard-to-perceive position in the distance. Any time
an ambusher (or group of ambushers) attempts to
surprise a target (or group of targets), make a secret
Perception Test for the ambushee(s). Unless they
are alert for surprises, this test should suffer the
typical -20 modifier for being distracted. This is an
Opposed Test against the ambusher(s) Infiltration skill.
Depending on the attacker’s position, other modifiers
may also apply (distance, visibility, cover, etc.).

If the Perception Test fails, the character is surprised
by the attack and cannot react to or defend against it. In
this case, simply give the attacker(s) a free Action Phase
to attack the surprised character(s). Once the attackers
have taken their actions, roll Initiative as normal.

If the Perception Test succeeds, the character is
alerted to something a split-second before they are
ambushed, giving them a chance to react. In this
case, roll Initiative as normal, but the ambushed
character(s) suffers a -3 modifier to the Initiative Test.
The ambushed character may still defend as normal.

In a group situation, things can get more compli-
cated when some characters are surprised and others
aren’t. In this case, roll Initiative as normal, with all
non-ambushers suffering the -3 modifier. Any charac-
ters who are surprised are simply unable to take action
on the first Action Phase, as they are caught off-guard
and must take a moment to assess what’s going on
and get caught up with the action. As above, surprised
characters my not defend on this first Action Phase.


THCTICHL NETWORKS


Tactical networks are specialized software programs
used by teams that benefit from the sharing of tacti-
cal data. They are commonly used by sports teams,
security outfits, military units, AR gamers, gatecrash-
ers, surveyors, miners, traffic control, scavengers, and
anyone else who needs a tactical overview of a situa-
tion. Firewall teams regularly take advantage of them.

In game terms, tacnets provide specialized software
skills and tools to a muse or AI, as best fits their tac-
tical needs. These tools link together and share and
analyze data between all of the participants in the
network, creating a customizable entoptics display for
each user that summarizes relevant data, highlights
interactions and priorities, and alerts the user to
matters that require their attention.


COMBAT TACNETS


The following list is a sample of a typical combat tac-
net’s features. Gamemasters are encouraged to modify
and expand these options as appropriate to their game:


e Maps: Tacnets assemble all available maps and
can present them to the user with a bird’s eye
view or as a three-dimensional interactive, with
distances between relevant features readily
accessible. The AI or muse can also plot maps
based on sensory input, breadcrumb positioning
systems (p. 332), and other data. Plotted paths
and other data from these maps can be displayed
as entoptic images or other AR sensory input
(e.g., a user who should be turning left might see
a transparent red arrow or feel a tingling sensa-
tion on their left side).

e Positioning: The exact position of the user and
all other participants are updated and mapped
according to mesh positioning and GPS. Likewise,
the position of known people, bots, vehicles, and
other features can also be plotted according to
sensory input.

e Sensory Input: Any sensory input available to a
participating character or device in the network
can be fed into the system and shared. This
includes data from physical senses, portable
sensors, smartlink guncams, XP output, etc. This
allows one user to immediately call up and access
the sensor feed of another user.

e¢ Communications Management: The tacnet
maintains an encrypted link between all users
and stays wary both of participants who drop
out or of attempts to hack or interfere with the
communications link.

e Smartlink/Weapon Data: The tacnet monitors
the status of weapons, accessories, and other
gear via the smartlink interface or wireless link,
bringing damage, shortages, and other issues to
the user’s attention.

e Indirect Fire: Members of a tacnet can provide
targeting data to each other for purposes of indi-
HEC C tiiben( (ome):

e Analysis: The muses and Als participating in
the tacnet are bolstered with skill software and
databases that enable them to interpret incoming




















SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE








GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


m=





data and sensory feeds. Perhaps the most useful
aspect of tacnets, this means that the muse/
AI may notice facts or details individual users
are likely to have overlooked. For example,
the tacnet can count shots fired by opponents,
note when they are likely running low, and
even analyze sensory input to determine the
type of weaponry and ammunition being used.
Opponents and their gear can also be scanned
and analyzed to note potential weaknesses,
injuries, and capabilities. If sensor contact with
an opponent is lost, the last known location is
memorized and potential movement vectors
and distances are displayed. Opponent position-
ing can also identify lines of sight and fields of
fire, alerting the user to areas of potential cover
or danger. The tacnet can also suggest tactical
maneuvers that will aid the user, such as flanking
an opponent or acquiring better elevation.


Many of these features are immediately accessible
to the user via their AR display; other data can be
accessed with a Quick Action. Likewise, the game-
master decides when the muse/AI provides important
alerts to the user. At the gamemaster’s discretion,
some of these features may apply modifiers to the
character’s tests.


TOUCH-ONLY ATTACK


Some types of attacks simply require you to touch
your target, rather than injure them, and are cor-
respondingly easier. This might apply when trying
to slap them with a dermal drug patch, spreading a
contact poison on their skin, or making skin-to-skin
contact for the use of a psi sleight. In situations like
this, apply a +20 modifier to your melee attacks.


TWO-WANDED WEAPONS


Any weapon noted as two-handed requires two hands
(or other prehensile limbs) to wield effectively. This
applies to some archaic melee weapons (large swords,
spears, etc.) in addition to certain larger firearms and
heavy weapons. Any character that attempts to use
such a weapon single-handed suffers a -20 modifier.
This modifier does not apply to mounted weapons.


WIELDING TWO OR MORE WEAPONS


It is possible for a character to wield two weapons
in combat or even more if they are an octomorph or
multi-limbed synthmorph. In this case, each weapon
that is held in an off-hand suffers a —20 off-hand
weapon modifier. This modifier may be offset with the
Ambidextrous trait (p. 145).


EATRA MELEE WEAPONS


The use of two or more melee weapons is treated as
a single attack, rather than multiple. Each additional
weapon applies +1d10 damage to the attack (up to
a maximum +3d10). Off-hand weapon modifiers
are ignored. If the character attacks multiple targets


with the same Complex Action (see Multiple Targets,
p. 202), these bonuses do not apply. The attacker
must, of course, be capable of actually wielding the
additional weapons. A splicer with only two hands
cannot wield a knife and a two-handed sword, for
example. Likewise, the gamemaster may ignore this
damage bonus for extra weapons that are too dis-
similar to use together effectively (like a whip and a
pool cue). Note that extra limbs do not count as extra
weapons in unarmed combat, nor do weapons that
come as a pair (such as shock gloves).

A character using more than one melee weapon
receives a bonus for defending against melee attacks
equal to +10 per extra weapon (maximum +30).


EATRA RANGED WEAPONS


Similarly, an attacker can wield a pistol in each hand
for ranged combat, or larger weapons if they have
more limbs (an eight-limbed octomorph, for example,
could conceivably hold four assault rifles). These
weapons may all be fired at once towards the same
target. In this case, each weapon is handled as a sepa-
rate attack, with each off-hand weapon suffering a
cumulative off-hand weapon modifier (no modifier for
the first attack, —20 for the second, —40 for the third,
and —60 for the fourth), offset by the Ambidextrous
trait (p. 145) as usual.


PHYSICHL HEALTH


In a setting as dangerous as Eclipse Phase, characters
are inevitably going to get hurt. Whether your morph is
biological or synthetic, you can be injured by weapons,
brawling, falling, accidents, extreme environments, psi
attacks, and so on. This section discusses how to track
such injuries and determine what effect they have on
your character. Two methods are used to gauge a char-
acter’s physical health: damage points and wounds.


DAMAGE POINTS


Any physical harm that befalls your character is mea-
sured in damage points. These points are cumulative,
and are recorded on your character sheet. Damage
points are characterized as fatigue, stun, bruises,
bumps, sprains, minor cuts, and similar hurts that,
while painful, do not significantly impair or threaten
your character’s life unless they accumulate to a signifi-
cant amount. Any source of harm that inflicts a large
amount of damage points at once, however, is likely
to have a more severe effect (see Wounds, next page)

Damage points may be reduced by rest, medical care,
and/or repair (see Healing and Repair, p. 208).


DAMAGE TYPES


Physical damage comes in three forms: Energy, Kinetic,
and Psi.


ENERGY DAMAGE


Energy damage includes lasers, plasma guns, fire, electro-
cution, explosions, and others sources of damaging energy.












KINETIC DAMAGE


Kinetic damage is caused by projectiles and other
objects moving at great speeds that disperse their
energy into the target upon impact. Kinetic attacks
include slug-throwers, flechette weapons, knives,
and punches.


D5! DAMAGE


Psi damage is caused by offensive psi sleights like
Psychic Stab (p. 228).


DURABILITY AND HEALTH


Your character’s physical health is measured by their
Durability stat. For characters sleeved in biomorphs,
this figure represents the point at which accumu-
lated damage points overwhelm your character and
they fall unconscious. Once you have accumulated
damage points equal to or exceeding your Durability
stat, you immediately collapse from exhaustion and
physical abuse. You remain unconscious and may
not be revived until your damage points are reduced
below your Durability, either from medical care or
natural healing.

If you are morphed in a synthetic shell, Durability
represents your structural integrity. You become
physically disabled when accumulated damage points
reach your Durability. Though your computer systems
are likely still functioning and you can still mesh, your
morph is broken and immobile until repaired.


DERTH


An extreme accumulation of damage points
can threaten your character’s life. If the damage
reaches your Durability x 1.5 (for biomorphs) or
Durability x 2 (for synthetic morphs), your body dies.
This is known as your Death Rating. Synthetic morphs
that reach this state are destroyed beyond repair.


DAMAGE VALUE


Weapons (and other sources of injury) in Eclipse
Phase have a listed Damage Value (DV)—the base
amount of damage points the weapon inflicts. This is
often presented as a variable amount, in the form of a
die roll; for example: 3d10. In this case, you roll three
ten-sided dice and add up the results (counting 0 as
10). Sometimes the DV will be presented as a dice roll
plus modifier; for example: 2d10 + 5. In this case you
roll two ten-sided dice, add them together, and then
add 5 to get the result.

For simplicity, a static amount is also noted in
parentheses after the variable amount. If you prefer
to skip the dice rolling, you can just apply the static
amount (usually close to the mean average) instead.
For example, if the damage were noted 2d10 + 5 (15),
you could simply apply 15 damage points instead of
rolling dice.

When damage is inflicted on a character, determine the
DV (roll the dice) and subtract the modified armor value,
as noted under Step 7: Determine Damage (p. 192).






———————————SSe Es











WOUNDS


Wounds represent more grievous injuries: bad cuts and


hemorrhaging, fractures and breaks, mangled limbs,
and other serious damage that impairs your ability to
function and may lead to death or long-term damage.

Any time your character sustains damage, compare
the amount inflicted (after it has been reduced by
armor) to your Wound Threshold. If the modified DV
equals or exceeds your Wound Threshold, you have
suffered a wound. If the inflicted damage is double your
Wound Threshold, you suffer 2 wounds; if triple your
Wound Threshold, you suffer 3 wounds; and so on.

Wounds are cumulative and must be marked on
your character sheet.

Note that these rules handle damage and wounds
as an abstract concept. For drama and realism,
gamemasters may wish to describe wounds in more
detailed and grisly terms: a broken ankle, a severed
tendon, internal bleeding, a lost ear, and so on. The


nature of such descriptive injuries may help the game- ~~


master assign other effects. For example, a character
with a crushed hand may not be able to pick up a gun,
someone with excessive blood loss may leave a trail
for their enemies to follow, or someone with a cut eye
may suffer an additional visual perception modifier.
Likewise, such details may impact how a character is
treated or heals.


WOUND EFFECTS


Each wound applies a cumulative -10 modifier to
actions and —1 to Initiative. A character with 3
wounds, for example, suffers —30 to all actions and
—3 to Initiative.

Some traits, morphs, implants, drugs, and psi allow
a character to ignore wound modifiers. These effects
are cumulative, though a maximum of 3 wounds
worth of modifiers may be negated (-30 to actions
and —3 to Initiative).

Knockdown: Any time a character takes a wound,
they must make an immediate SOM x 3 Test. Wound
modifiers apply. If they fail, they are knocked down
and must expend a Quick Action to get back up. Bots
and vehicles must make a Pilot Test to avoid crashing.

Unconsciousness: Any time a character receives 2
or more wounds at once (from the same attack), they
must also make an immediate SOM x 3 Test; wound
modifiers again apply. If they fail, they have been
knocked unconscious (until they are awoken or heal).
Bots and vehicles that take 2 or more wounds at once
automatically crash (see Crashing, p. 196).

Bleeding: Any biomorph character who has suf-
fered a wound and who takes damage that exceeds
their Durability is in danger of bleeding to death.
They incur 1 additional damage point per Action Turn
(20 per minute) until they receive medical care or die.


DERTH


For many people in Eclipse Phase, death is not the
end of the line. If the character’s cortical stack can be
retrieved, they can be resurrected and downloaded into





=
jm)
—
Cc)
Cc
co
—
<—
L)
—
=
—
C3
<—


NO
~








SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS





CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS





ACTIONS AND COMBAT





MIND HACKS


THE MESH


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE












a new morph (see Resleeving, p. 270). This typically
requires either backup insurance (p. 269) or the good
graces of whomever ends up with their body/stack.

If the cortical stack is not retrievable, the character
can still be re-instantiated from an archived backup
(p. 270). Again, this either requires backup insurance
or someone who is willing to pay to have them revived.

If the character’s cortical stack is not retrieved
and they have no backup, then they are completely
and utterly dead. Gone. Kaput. (Unless they happen
to have an alpha fork of themselves floating around
somewhere; see Forking and Merging, p. 273)


HEALING AND REPAIR


Use the follow rules for healing and repairing
damaged and wounded characters.


BIOMORPH HEALING


Thanks to advanced medical technologies, there
are many ways for characters in biological morphs
(including pods) to heal injuries. Medichine nanoware
(p. 308) helps characters to heal quickly, as do nano-
bandages (p. 333). Healing vats (p. 327) will heal even
the most grievous wounds in a matter of days, and
can even restore characters who recently died or have
been reduced to just a head.

Characters without access to these medical tools
are not without hope, of course. The medical skills of
a trained professional can abate the impact of wounds,
and over time bodies will of course heal themselves.


MEDICAL CARE


Characters with an appropriate Medicine skill
(such as Medicine: Paramedic or Medicine: Trauma
Surgery) can perform first aid on damaged or
wounded characters. A successful Medicine Test,
modified as the gamemaster deems fit according
to situational conditions, will heal 1d10 points of
damage and will remove 1 wound. This test must be
made within 24 hours of the injury, and any particu-
lar injury may only be treated once. If the character
is later injured again, however, this new damage
may also be treated. Medical care of this sort is not
effective against injuries that have been treated with
medichines, nanobandages, or healing vats.






NATURAL HERING


Characters trapped far from medical technology—in
a remote station, the wilds of Mars, or the like—may
be forced to heal naturally if injured. Natural healing
is a slow process that’s heavily influenced by a number
of factors. In order for a character to heal wounds,
all normal damage must be healed first. Consult the
Healing table.


SURGERY


In Eclipse Phase, most grievous injuries can be
handled by time in a healing vat (p. 327) or simply
rest and recovery. In circumstances where a healing
vat is not available, the gamemaster may decide that
a particular wound requires actual surgery from an





intelligent being (whether a character or Al-driven
medbot). Usually in this case the character will be
incapable of further healing until the surgery occurs.
The surgery is handled as a Medical Test using a field
appropriate to the situation and with a timeframe
of 1-8 hours. If successful, the character is healed of
1d10 damage and 1 wound and recovers from that
point on as normal.


SUNTHMORPH AND OBJECT REPAIR


Unlike biomorphs, synthetic morphs and objects do not
heal damage on their own and must be repaired. Some
synthmorphs and devices have advanced nanotech self-
repair systems, similar to medichines for biomorphs
(see Fixers, p. 329). Repair spray (p. 333) may also
be used to conduct fixes and is an extremely useful
option for non-technical people. Barring these options,
technicians may also work repairs the old-fashioned
way, using their skills and tools (see Physical Repairs,
below). As a last resort, synthmorphs and objects may
be repaired in a nanofabrication machine with the
appropriate blueprints (using the same rules as healing
WaAlSe0-1 oo 7).


PHYSICAL REPAIRS


Manually fixing a synthmorph or object requires a
Hardware Test using a field appropriate to the item
(Hardware: Robotics for synthmorphs and bots,
Hardware: Aerospace for aircraft, etc.), with a -10
modifier per wound. Repair is a Task Action with a
timeframe of 2 hours per 10 points of damage being


HEALING


CHARACTER SITUATION


Character using nanobandage


Character with me ichines


Poor conditions (bad food, not enough rest/heavy activity,
poor shelter and/or sanitation)


DAN ANC SS AYRE VANS
1d10 (5) per day
161005) per thou


WOUND HEALING RATE


Ter 12 hours


double timeframe double timeframe


Harsh conditions (insufficient food, no rest/strenuous activity,


little or no shelter and/or sanitation)





triple timeframe no wound healing





restored, plus 8 hours per wound. Appropriate modi-
fiers should be applied, based on conditions and avail-
able tools. For example, utilitools (p. 326) apply a +10
modifier to repair tests, while repair spray applies a
+30 modifier.


REPAIRING ARMOR


Armor may be repaired in the same manner as
Durability, however, wounds do not impact the test
with modifiers or extra time.


MENTAL HEALTH


In a time when people can discard bodies and replace
them with new ones, trauma inflicted on your mind
and ego—your sense of se/f/—is often more frightening
than grievous physical harm. There are many ways
in which your sanity and mental wholeness can be
threatened: experiencing physical death, extended
isolation, loss of loved ones, alien situations, disconti-
nuity of self from lost memories or switching morphs,
psi attack, and so on. Two methods are used to gauge
your mental health: stress points and trauma.


STRESS POINTS


Stress points represent fractures in your ego’s integ-
rity, cracks in the mental image of yourself. This
mental damage is experienced as cerebral shocks,
disorientation, cognitive disconnects, synaptic mis-
fires, or an undermining of the intellectual faculties.
On their own, these stress points do not significantly
impair your character’s functioning, but if allowed
to accumulate they can have severe repercussions.
Additionally, any source that inflicts a large amount
of stress points at once is likely to have a more severe
impact (see Trauma, p. 209).

Stress points may be reduced by long-term rest,
psychiatric care, and/or psychosurgery (p. 215).


LUCIDITY AND STRESS


Your Lucidity stat benchmarks your character’s
mental stability. If you build up an amount of stress
points equal to or greater than your Lucidity score,
your character’s ego immediately suffers a mental
breakdown. You effectively go into shock and remain
in a catatonic state until your stress points are reduced
to a level below your Lucidity stat. Accumulated stress
points will overwhelm egos housed inside synthetic
shells or infomorphs just as they will biological
brains—the mental software effectively seizes up,
incapable of functioning until it is debugged.


INSANITY RATING


Extreme amounts of built-up stress points can perma-
nently damage your character’s sanity. If accumulated
stress points reach your Lucidity x 2, your character’s
ego undergoes a permanent meltdown. Your mind is
lost, and no amount of psych help or rest will ever
bring it back.


STRESS VALUE


Any source capable of inflicting cognitive stress is
given a Stress Value (SV). This indicates the amount of
stress points the attack or experience inflicts upon a
character. Like DV, SV is often presented as a variable
amount, such as 2d10, or sometimes with a modi-
fier, such as 2d10 + 10. Simply roll the dice and total
the amounts to determine the stress points inflicted
in that instance. To make things easier, a static SV is
also given in parentheses after the variable amount;
use that set amount when you wish to keep the game
moving and don’t want to roll dice.


TRAUMA


Mental trauma is more severe than stress points.
Traumas represent severe mental shocks, a crumbling
of personality/self, delirium, paradigm shifts, and
other serious cognitive malfunctions. Traumas impair
your character’s functioning and may result in tempo-
rary derangements or permanent disorders.

If your character receives a number of stress points
at once that equals or exceeds their Trauma Threshold,
they have suffered a trauma. If the inflicted stress
points are double or triple the Trauma Threshold,
they suffer 2 or 3 traumas, respectively, and so on.
Traumas are cumulative and must be recorded on
your character sheet.


TRAUMA EFFECTS


Each trauma applies a cumulative -10 modifier to
all of the character’s actions and —1 to Initiative. A
character with 2 traumas, for example, suffers —20 to
all actions and —2 Initiative. These modifiers are also
cumulative with wound modifiers.

Disorientation: Any time a character suffers a
trauma, they must make an immediate WIL x 3 Test.
Trauma modifiers apply. If they fail, they are tempo-
rarily stunned and disoriented and must expend a
Complex Action to regain their wits.

Derangements and Disorders: Any time a character is
hit with a trauma, they suffer a temporary derangement
(see Derangements, next page). The first trauma inflicts
a minor derangement. If a second trauma is applied, the
first derangement is either upgraded from minor to a
moderate derangement or else a second minor derange-
ment is applied (gamemaster’s discretion). Likewise, a
third trauma may upgrade that derangement from
moderate to major or else inflict a new minor. It is gen-
erally recommended that derangements be upgraded
in potency, especially when result from the same set
of ongoing circumstances. In the case of traumas that
result from distinctly separate situations and sources,
separate derangements may be applied.

Disorder: When four or more traumas have been
inflicted on a character, a major derangement is
upgraded to a disorder. Disorders represent long-
lasting psychological afflictions that typically require
weeks or even months of psychotherapy and/or psy-
chosurgery to remedy (see Disorders, p. 211).





NO
ce)


=
jm)
—
Cc)
Cc
co
—
<—
L)
—
=
——
C3
<—











DERANGEMENTS


Derangements are temporary mental conditions that
result from traumas. Derangements are measured as
Minor, Moderate, or Major. The gamemaster and
player should cooperate in choosing which derange- |
ment to apply, as appropriate to the scenario and
character personality.

Derangements last for 1d10 + 2 hours (round
down) or until the character receives psychiatric help,
whichever comes first. At the gamemaster’s discretion,
a derangement may last longer if the character has not
been distanced from the source of the stress or if they
remain embroiled in other stress-inducing situations.

Derangement effects are meant to be roleplayed.
The player should incorporate the derangement into
their character’s words and actions. If the gamemaster
doesn’t feel the player is stressing the effects enough,
they can emphasize them. If the gamemaster feels it is
appropriate, they may also call for additional modi-
fiers or tests for certain actions.


ANAIETY (MINOR)


You suffer a panic attack, exhibiting the physiological
conditions of fear and worry: sweatiness, racing heart,
trembling, shortness of breath, headaches, and so on.


AVOIDANCE (MINOR)


You are psychologically incapable of dealing with the
source of the stress or some circumstance related to it,
so you avoid it—even covering your ears, curling up
in a ball, or shutting off your sensors if you have to.


DIZZINESS (MINOR)


The stress makes you light-headed and disoriented.


ECHOLALIA (MINOR)


You involuntarily repeat words and phrases spoken
by others.


FIRATION (MINOR)


You become fixated on something that you did wrong
or some circumstance that led to your stress. You
obsess over it, repeating the behavior, trying to fix it,
running scenarios through your head and out loud,
and so on.


HUNGER (MINOR


You are suddenly consumed by an irrational yet
overwhelming desire to eat something—perhaps even
something unusual.


INDECISIVENESS (MINOR)


You are flustered by the cause of your stress, finding
it difficult to make choices or select courses of action.











LOGORRWOER (MINOR)


Your response to the trauma is to engage in excessive
talking and babbling. You don’t shut up.


NAUSEA (MINOR)


The stress sickens you, forcing you to fight down
queasiness.


CHILLS (MODERATE)


Your body temperature rises, making you feel cold,
and shivering sets in. You just can’t get warm.


CONFUSION (MODERATE)


The trauma scrambles your concentration, making
you forget what you’re doing, mix up simple tasks,
and falter over easy decisions.


ECHOPRARIA (MODERATE)


You involuntarily repeat and mimic the actions of
others around you.


MOOD SWINGS (MODERATE)


You lose control of your emotions. You switch from
ecstasy to tears and back to rage without warning.


MUTE (MODERATE)


The trauma shocks you into speechlessness and a com-
plete inability to effectively communicate.


NARCISSISM (MODERATE)


In the wake of the mental shock, all you can think about
is yourself. You cease caring about those around you.


PANIC (MODERATE)


You are overwhelmed by fear or anxiety and immedi-
ately seek to distance yourself from the cause of the
stress.


TREMORS (MODERATE)


You shake violently, making it difficult to hold things
or stay still.


BLACKOUT (MAJOR)


You operate on auto-pilot in a temporary fugue state.
Later, you will be incapable of recalling what hap-
pened during this period. (Synthetic shells and info-
morphs may call up memory records from storage.)


FRENZY (MAJOR)


You have a major freak out over the source of the
stress and attack it.


HALLUCINATIONS (MAJOR)


You see, hear, or otherwise sense things that aren’t
really there.


HYSTERIA (MAJOR)


You lose control, panicking over the source of the
stress. This typically results in an emotional outburst
of crying, laughing, or irrational fear.


IRRATIONALITY (MAJOR)


You are so jarred by the stress that your capacity for
logical judgment breaks down. You are angered by
imaginary offenses, hold unreasonable expectations,
or otherwise accept things with unconvincing evidence.


PARALYSIS (MAJOR)


. You are so shocked by the trauma that you are


effectively frozen, incapable of making decisions or
taking action.


PSYCHOSOMATIC CRIPPLING (MAJOR)


The trauma overwhelms you, impairing some part of
your physical functioning. You suffer from an inex-
plicable blindness, deafness, or phantom pain or are
suddenly incapable of using a limb or other extremity.


DISORDERS


Disorders reflect more permanent madness. In this case,

“permanent” does not necessarily mean forever, but
the condition is ongoing until the character receives
lengthy and effective psychiatric help. Disorders are
inflicted whenever a character accumulates 4 traumas.
The gamemaster and player should choose a disorder
that fits the situation and character.

Disorders are not always “active”—they may
remain dormant until triggered by certain conditions.
While it is certainly possible to act under a disorder,
it represents a severe impairment to a person’s ability
to maintain normal relationships and do a job suc-
cessfully. Disorders should not be glamorized as cute
roleplaying quirks. They represent the best attempts
of a damaged psyche to deal with a world that has
failed it in some way. Additionally, people in many
habitats, particularly those in the inner system, still
regard disorders as a mark of social stigma and may
react negatively towards impaired characters.

Characters that acquire disorders over the course
of their adventures may get rid of them in one of two
ways, either through in-game attempts to treat them
(p. 215) or by buying them off as they would a nega-
tive trait (see Gaining/Losing Traits, p. 153).


ADDICTION


Addiction as a disorder can refer to any sort of addic-
tive behavior focused toward a particular behavior
or substance, to the point where the user is unable
to function without the addiction but is also severely
impaired due to the effects of the addiction. It is
marked by a desire on the part of the subject to seek
help or reduce the use of the addicting substance/act,
but also by the subject spending large amounts of time


i]
—_


=
jm)
—
Cc)
Cc
co
—
<—
L)
—
=
——
C3
<—




















SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE

















in pursuit of their addiction to the exclusion of other
activities. This is a step up from the Addiction nega-
tive trait on p. 148—this is much more of a crippling
behavior that compensates for spending time away
from the addiction. Addictions are typically related
to the trauma that caused the disorder (VR or drug
addictions are encouraged).

Suggested Game Effects: The addict functions in
only two states: under the influence of their addic-
tion or in withdrawal. Additionally, they spend large
amounts of time away from their other responsibili-
ties in pursuit of their addiction.


AT AVIS


Atavism is a disorder that mainly affects uplifts. It
results in them regressing to an earlier un- or partially
uplifted state. They may exhibit behaviors more
closely in line with their more animalistic forbears, or
they may lose some of their uplift benefits such as the
ability for abstract reasoning or speech.

Suggested Game Effects: The player and gamemas-
ter should discuss how much of the uplift’s nature
is lost and adjust game penalties accordingly. It is
important to note that other uplifts view atavistic
uplifts with something akin to horror and will usually
have nothing to do with them.


ATTENTION DEFICIT HYPERACTIVITY DISORDER (ADHD)


This disorder manifests as a marked inability to focus
on any one task for an extended period of time, and
also an inability to notice details in most situations.
Sufferers may find themselves starting multiple tasks,
beginning a new one after only a cursory attempt at
the prior task. ADHD suffers may also have a manic
edge that manifests as confidence in their ability to get
a given job done, even though they will quickly lose
all interest in it.

Suggested Game Effects: Perception and related
skill penalties. Increased difficulty modifiers to task
actions, particularly as the action drags on.


HUTOPHAGY


This is a disorder that usually only occurs among
uplifted octopi. It is a form of anxiety disorder char-
acterized by self-cannibalism of the limbs. Subjects
afflicted with autophagy will, under stress, begin to
consume their limbs if at all possible, causing them-
selves potentially serious harm.

Suggested Game Effects: Anytime an uplifted
octopus with this disorder is placed in a stressful situ-
ation they must make a successful WIL x 3 Test or
begin to consume one of their limbs.


BIPOLAR DISORDER


Bipolar disorder is also called manic depression. It
is similar to depression except for the fact that the
periods of depression are interrupted by brief (a
matter of days at most) periods of mania where the


subject feels inexplicably “up” about everything with
heightened energy and a general disregard for conse-
quences. The depressive stages are similar in all ways
to depression. The manic stages are dangerous since
the subject will take risks, spend wildly, and gener-
ally engage in behavior without much in the way of
forethought or potential long term consequences.

Suggested Game Effects: Similar to depression, but
when manic the character must make a WIL x 3 Test
to not do some action that may be potentially risky.
They will also try to convince others to go along with
imevideas


BODY DYSMORPHIA


Subjects afflicted with this disorder believe that they
are so unspeakably hideous that they are unable to
interact with others or function normally for fear of
ridicule and humiliation at their appearance. They
tend to be very secretive and reluctant to seek help
because they are afraid others will think them vain—
or they may feel too embarrassed to do so. Ironically,
BDD is often misunderstood as a vanity-driven
obsession, whereas it is quite the opposite; people
with BDD believe themselves to be irrevocably ugly
or defective. A similar disorder, gender identity disor-
der, where the patient is upset with their entire sexual
biology, often precipitates BDD-like feelings. Gender
identity disorder is directed specifically at external
sexually dimorphic features, which are in constant
conflict with the patient’s internal psychiatric gender.

Suggested Game Effects: Because of the nature of
Eclipse Phase and the ability to swap out and modify
a body, this is a fairly common disorder. It is sug-
gested that characters with this suffer increased or
prolonged resleeving penalties since they are unable
to fully adjust to the reality of their new morph.


BORDERLINE PERSONALITY DISORDER


This disorder is marked by a general inability to fully
experience one’s self any longer. Emotional states are
variable and often marked by extremes and acting
out. Simply put, the subject feels like they are losing
their sense of self and seeks constant reassurance
from others around them, yet is not fully able to
act in an appropriate way. They may also engage in
impulsive behaviors in an attempt to experience some
sort of feeling. In extreme cases, there may be suicidal
thoughts or attempts.

Suggested Game Effects: The character needs to
be around others and will not be left alone, however
they also are not quite able to relate to others in a
normal way and may also take risks or make impul-
sive decisions.


DEPRESSION


Clinical depression is characterized by intense feelings
of hopelessness and worthlessness. Subjects usually
report feeling as though nothing they do matters and









a ee ee ee
— — HN gp









no one would care anyway, so they are disinclined to
attempt much in the way of anything. The character is
depressed and finds it difficult to be motivated to do
much of anything. Even simple acts such as eating and
bathing can seem to be monumental tasks.

Suggested Game Effect: Depressives often lack the
will to take any sort of action, often to the point of
requiring a WIL x 3 Test to engage in sustained activity.


FUGUE


The character enters into a fugue state where they
display little attention to external stimuli. They will


still function physiologically but refrain from speak- --—


ing and stare off into the distance, unable to focus
on events around them. Unlike catatonia, a person
in a fugue state will walk around if lead about by
a helper, but is otherwise unresponsive. The fugue
state is usually a persistent state, but it can be an
occasional state that is triggered by some sort of
external stimuli similar to the original trauma that
triggered the disorder.

Suggested Game Effects: Characters in a fugue
state are totally non-responsive to most stimuli
around them. They will not even defend themselves if
attacked and will usually attempt to curl into a fetal
position if physically assaulted.


GENERAL ANATETY DISORDER (GAD)


GAD results in severe feelings of anxiety about
nearly everything the character comes into contact
with. Even simple tasks represent the potential for
failure on a catastrophic scale and should be avoided
or minimized. Additionally, negative outcomes for
any action are always assumed to be the only pos-
sible outcomes.

Suggested Game Effects: A character with GAD will
be almost entirely useless unless convinced otherwise,
and then only for a short period of time. Another
character can attempt to use a relevant social skill to
coax the GAD character into doing what is required
of them. If the character with the disorder fails at the
task, however, all future attempts to coax them will
suffer a cumulative —-10 penalty.


HYUPOCKONDRIA


Hypochondriacs suffer from a delusion that they are
sick in ways that they are not. They will create dis-
orders that they believe they suffer from, usually to
get the attention of others. Often hypochondriacs will
inflict harm on themselves or even ingest substances
that will aid in producing symptoms similar to the
disorder they believe they have. These attempts to
simulate symptoms can and will cause actual harm
to hypochondriacs.

Suggested Game Effects: A subject that is hypo-
chondriac will often behave as though they are under
the effects of some other disorder or physical malady.
This can be consistent over time or can be different


and ever changing. They will react with hostility to
claims that they are faking or not actually ill.


IMPULSE CONTROL DISORDER


Subjects have a certain act or belief that they must
engage in a certain activity that comes into their mind.
This can be kleptomania, pyromania, sexual exhi-
bitionism, etc. They feel a sense of building anxiety
whenever they are prevented from engaging in this
behavior for an extended period (usually several
times a day to weekly, depending on the impulse)
and will often attempt to engage in this behavior at
inconvenient or inappropriate times. This is differ-
ent from OCD in the sense that OCD is usually a
single contained behavior that must be engaged in to
reduce anxiety. Impulse control disorder is a variety
of behaviors and can be virtually any sort of highly
inappropriate action.

Suggested Game Effects: Similar to OCD, if the
character doesn’t engage in the behavior they will
grow increasingly disturbed and suffer penalties to all
actions until they are able to engage in the compul-
sion that alleviates their anxiety.


INSOMNIA


Insomniacs find themselves unable to sleep, or unable
to sleep for an extended period of time. This is most
often due to anxiety about their lives or as a result of
depression and the accompanying negative thought
patterns. This is not the sort of sleeplessness that is
brought about as a result of normal stress but rather a
near total inability to find rest in sleep when it is desired.
Insomniacs may find themselves nodding off at inop-
portune times, but never for long, and never enough to
gain any restful sleep. As a result, they are frequently
lethargic and inattentive as their lack of sleep robs them
of their edge and eventually any semblance of alertness.
Additionally, insomniacs are frequently irritable due to
being on edge and unable to rest.

Suggested Game Effects: Due to the lack of
meaningful sleep, insomniacs should suffer from
blanket penalties to perception-related tasks or
anything requiring concentration or prolonged fine
motor abilities.


MECHLOMANIA


A megalomaniac believes themselves to be the single
most important person in the universe. Nothing is
more important than the megalomaniac and every-
thing around them must be done according to their
whim. Failure to comply with the dictates of a mega-
lomaniac can often result in rages or actual physical
assaults by the subject.

Suggested Game Effects: A character that has
megalomania will demand attention and has diff-
culty in nearly any social situation. Additionally, they
may be provoked to violence if they think they are
being slighted.


> ACTIONS AND COMBAT


213 |

















SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE








GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE


m=





MULTIPLE PERSONALITY DISORDER


This is the development of a separate, distinct per-
sonality from the original or control personality.
The personalities may or may not be aware of each
other and “conscious” during the actions of the other
personality. Usually there is some sort of trigger that
results in the emergence of the non-control personality.
Most subjects have only a single extra personality, but
it is not unheard of to have several personalities. It
is important to note that these are distinct individual
personalities and not just crude caricatures of the Dr.
Jekyll/Mr. Hyde sort. Each personality sees itself as
a distinct person with their own wants, needs, and
motivations. Additionally, they are usually unaware
of the experiences of the others, though there is some
basic information sharing (such as language and core
skill sets).

Suggested Game Effects: When the player is under
the effects of another personality, they should be
treated as an NPC. In some rare cases the player and
the gamemaster can work out the second personality
and allow the player to roleplay this. This does not
however constitute an entire new character that can
be “turned on” at will.


OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (OCD)


Subjects with OCD are marked by intrusive or inap-
propriate thoughts or impulses that cause acute
anxiety if a particular obsession or compulsion is not
engaged in to alleviate them. These obsessions and
compulsions can be nearly any sort of behavior that
must be immediately engaged in to keep the rising
anxiety at bay. Players and gamemasters are encour-
aged to come up with a behavior that is suitable.
Examples of common behaviors include repetitive
tics (touching every finger of each hand to another
part of the body, tapping the right foot twenty times),
pathological behaviors such as gambling or eating,
or a mental ritual that must be completed (reciting a
book passage).

Suggested Game Effects: If the character doesn’t
engage in the behavior they will grow increasingly
disturbed and suffer penalties to all actions until they
are able to engage in the compulsion that alleviates
their anxiety.


POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (PTSD)


PTSD occurs as a result of being exposed to either
a single incident or a series of incidents where the
sufferer had their own life, or saw the lives of others,
threatened with death. These incidents are often
marked by an inability on the part of the victim, either
real or perceived, to do anything to alter the outcomes.
As a result, they develop an acute anxiety and fixation
on these incidents to the point where they lose sleep,
become irritated or easily angered, or are depressed
over feelings that they lack control in their own lives.

Suggested Game Effects: Penalties to task actions,
also treat situations similar to the initial episodes that
caused the disorder as a phobia.





SCHIZOPHRENIA


While schizophrenia is generally acknowledged as a
genetic disorder that has an onset in early adulthood,
it also seems to develop in a number of egos that
undergo frequent morph changes. It has been theo-
rized that this is due to some sort of repetitive error
in the download process. Regardless, it remains a
rare, yet persistent danger of dying and being brought
back. Schizophrenia is a psychotic disorder where
the subject loses their ability to discern reality from
unreality. This can involve delusions, hallucinations
(often in support of the delusions), and fragmented
or disorganized speech. The subject will not be aware
of these behaviors and will perceive themselves as
functioning normally, often to the point of becom-
ing paranoid that others are somehow involved in a
grand deception.

Suggested Game Effects: Schizophrenia represents
a total break from reality. A character that is schizo-
phrenic may see and hear things and act on those
delusions and hallucinations while seeing attempts
by their friends to stop or explain to them as part
of a wider conspiracy. Adding to this is the difficulty
of communicating coherently. Characters that have
become schizophrenic are only marginally functional
and only for short periods of time until they have the
disorder treated.


STRESSFUL SITUATIONS


The universe of Eclipse Phase is ripe with experiences
that might rattle a character’s sanity. Some of these are
as mundane and human as extreme violence, extended
isolation, or helplessness. Others are less common, but
even more terrifying: encountering alien species, infec-
tion by the exsurgent virus, or being sleeved inside a
non-human morph.


WILLPOWER STRESS TESTS


Whenever a character encounters a situation that
might impact their ego’s psyche, the gamemaster may
call for a (Willpower x 3) Test. This test determines if
the character is able to cope with the unnerving situa-
tion or if the experience scars their mental landscape.
If they succeed, the character is shaken but otherwise
unaffected. If they fail, they suffer stress damage (and
possibly trauma) as appropriate to the situation. A
list of stress-inducing scenarios and suggested SVs are
listed on the Stressful Experiences table, p. 215. The
gamemaster should use these as a guideline, modifying
them as appropriate to the situation at hand.

Note that some incidents may be so horrific that a
modifier is applied to the (Willpower x 3) Test.


HARDENING


The more you are exposed to horrible or terrifying
things, the less scary they become. After repeated
exposure, you become hardened to such things, able
to shake them off without effect.











2 ln 7s


Every time you succeed in a Willpower Test to avoid
taking stress from a particular source, take note. If you
successfully resist such a situation 5 times, you become
effectively immune to taking stress from that source.

The drawback to hardening yourself to such situa-
tions is that you grow detached and callous. In order
to protect yourself, you have learned to cut off your
emotions—but it is such emotions that make you
human. You have erected mental walls that will affect
your empathy and ability to relate to others.

Each time you harden yourself to one source of
stress, your maximum Moxie stat is reduced by 1.
Psychotherapy may be used to overcome such harden- =~
ing, in the same way a disorder is treated.


MENTAL HEALING AND PSYCHOTHERAPY


Stress is trickier to heal than physical damage. There





are no nano-treatments or quick fix options (other than
killing yourself and reverting to a non-stressed backup).
The options for recuperating are simply natural healing
over time, psychotherapy, or psychosurgery.


POVCHOTHERAPY CARE


Characters with an appropriate skill—Medicine:
Psychiatry, Academics: Psychology, or Professional:
Psychotherapy—can assist a character suffering mental
stress or trauma with psychotherapy. This treatment


STRESSFUL EXPERIENCES


SITUATION SV
Failing spectacularly in pursuit of a motivational goal
Helplessness ; le iabeeei at tease 1 d 1 oe »
Betrayal by a trusted friend | ee
Extended i solation ee ae
Extreme violence (viewing)





1d10+2 (round down) —
(round down) —
1d10 + -2 (round down)
1d10 = ») (round | down)
1610 = 2 (ound down)


is a long-term process, involving methods such as
psychoanalysis, counseling, roleplaying, relationship-
building, hypnotherapy, behavioral modification, drugs,
medical treatments, and even psychosurgery (p. 229).
Als skilled in psychotherapy are also available.

Psychotherapy is a Task Action, with a timeframe
of 1 hour per point of stress, 8 hours per trauma, and
40 hours per disorder. Note that this only counts the
time actually spent in psychotherapy with a skilled
professional. After each psychotherapy session, make
a test to see if the session was successful. Successful
psychosurgery adds a +30 modifier to this test; at the
gamemaster’s discretion, other modifiers may apply.
Likewise, each disorder the character holds inflicts
a -10 modifier. Traumas may not be healed until all
stress is eliminated.

When a trauma is healed, the derangement associ-
ated with that trauma is eliminated or downgraded.
Disorders are treated separately from the trauma that
caused them and may only be treated when all other
traumas are removed.

Gamemaster and players are encouraged to roleplay
a character’s suffering and relief from traumas and
disorders. Each is an experience that makes a profound
impact on a character’s personality and psyche. The
process of treatment may also change them, so in the
end they may be a transformed from the person they
once were. Even if treated, the scars are
likely to remain for some time to come.
According to some opinions, disorders
are never truly eradicated, they are just
eased into submission ... where they may
linger beneath the surface, waiting for
some trauma to come along.


NATURAL HEALING


Characters who eschew psychotherapy
can hopefully work out the problems in


Extreme violence (committing)


Awareness that your death is imminent
Experiencing s someone's death via XP


Losing a loved one
“Watching a a loved one die


Being responsible for the death of a loved 0 one
Encountering a a gruesome murder scene


| Torture ( (viewing) |


Torture (moderate suffering) =


Torture (severe suffering)


Encountering aliens (sentient)


Encountering hostile aliens


Encountering I highly advanced technology Oe
Encountering exsurgent- modified ‘technology =
Encountering exsurgent-infected transhumans

Encountering exsurgent ifeforms


Exsurgent virus infection
Witnessing psi-epsilon sleights





Encountering aliens (non-sentent ene 2 (round mS


7 ci d10 a their head on their own over time. For
1010 every month that passes without accru-
“Gdio «| ~_ ing new stress, the character may make
; sa qa WIL x 3 Test. If successful, they heal


2 (round | down)
' mm 1d10 points of stress or 1 trauma (all


q dt Ue


stress must be healed first). Disorders
are even more difficult to heal, requiring
3 months without stress or trauma, and
even then only being eliminated with a
successful WIL Test. As a result, disor-
ders can linger for years until resolved
with actual psychotherapy.


“dt 4 as 2)


_1d10 + 2 (round down) _
al d | er 2 (round down) —


“(di 4 hs Pa


110 42


- FY








> ACTIONS AND COMBAT


215 |





MIND HAChS











PS! GAME MECHANICS





If a character has the Psi trait, they can wield psi powers. lM p. 220








ee) OLS


Psi-chi sleights are abilities that enhance an async’s
perception and cognition. @ p. 223





eS) eS





Psi-gamma sleights analyze and influence
the functions of other biological minds. Ml p. 225


PSYCHOSURGERY


Psychosurgery can be used to control
behavior, implant skills, interrogate, torture,
and more. Mf pp. 229-231
















SYNOPSIS


P


WELCOME TO FIREWALL j


a f /
A TIME OF ECLIPSE


i


GAME MECHANICS


a
CHARACTER CREATION
|
SAMPLE CHARACTERS


oe i


SKILLS


™~ 4


ACTIONS AND COMBAT

— ~~

9 MIND HACKS
L % ~,
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GEAR
GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


<q 213





> Desdemona: Glad to have you back. | hope
you had a pleasant farcast from Pelion and don't
feel too much lack. While you were out, a message
from Aeneas with a precis on psi, extracted from
the infomorph backup of psigeneticist Daborva


(Stelllnt, Dipole Research Station on Ganymede), was


rerouted for distribution to your Firewall node.


Coined by the biologist Bertold P. Wiesner,
“psi” was originally an umbrella term
used to describe a number of so-called
“psychic” abilities and other speculative
paranormal phenomena such as telepa-
thy and extra-sensory perception. While
the term was used extensively in the
field of parapsychology and pop culture
in the twentieth and early twenty-first
centuries, the study of psi was largely
considered a pseudoscience with flawed
methodologies and gradually lost
funding and support.

During the Fall, however, repeated
rumors and accounts of unexplained
phenomenon drew the attention of
scientists, military leaders, and singular-
ity seekers alike. Numerous nanoviruses
had been unleashed upon transhumanity,
racing through populations and trans-
forming as they spread. Some inflicted
only minor biological or mental changes
and impairments, but many were vicious
and deadly. The most feared variants,
however, were those that Firewall has
come to label as the exsurgent virus—a
transformative nanoplague that mutates
its victims and subverts them to its will.
The exsurgent virus was also observed
to radically modify the subject's neural
patterns and mental state, affecting syn-
aptic arrangement and even modulating
synaptic currents. These changes alter
and enhance the victim's cognition and
seemed to endow an ability to sense and
affect the minds of others from a short
distance—an ability dubbed “psi” as the
causal factors continue to mystify us. The
existence and nature of this phenom-
enon remains carefully concealed and
under wraps in controlled habitats, so as
not to trigger widespread panic. Among
anarchist and other open communities,
knowledge of psi is more widespread,
but details are vague and reports are
generally greeted with skepticism.

The exsurgent virus is exceptionally
mutable and adaptive, however, and two
argonaut researchers who were aware of
and studying it soon made an interesting
discovery. One variant strain of the virus
was found that endowed the subject
with exceptional mental abilities without


engaging the transformative process of
the other strains. Though infection still
has other drawbacks, Firewall and other
agencies have come to regard this strain
as “safe” in the sense that the subject
does not transmogrify into something
else and their general personality remains
intact. Intrigued that this avenue of
inquiry might lead to a way to nullify the
effects of other exsurgent strains, Firewall
and others continue to experiment with
the strain with the cooperation of willing
test subjects (or according to some
reports, unwilling victims in the case of
certain authorities and hypercorps).


THE NATURE OF PSI

Labeled the Watts-MacLeod strain
after the researchers who isolated it,
further study has gained insight into
the effect this virus has on transhuman
brains. Careful analysis of infected
subjects discovered that their altered
synapses generate a modulated brain-
wave pattern that is extremely difficult
to detect. Those “in-the-know” have
come to refer to these asynchronous
brainwaves as “psi waves,” fitting with
the Greek letter designation of other
brainwaves (alpha, beta, delta, gamma,
theta). Likewise, affected individuals are
known as “asyncs.”

Exploration of the explicit causal
factors behind psi waves remains
stymied. Theories regarding extraordi-
nary mental processes with the ability
to change quantum states have been
explored but remain frustratingly incon-
oTUESTAVemm (ele Lcoliarele lave pe-lave maate] ©) ed[ave Maris
enabled scientists to pinpoint structures
within the brain, neural activity, and per-
turbations in the brain's bioelectric field
that are associated with psi processes,
but attempts to duplicate these features
in non-infected brains have resulted in
failure or worse. Attempts to identify
asyncs by psi brainwave patterns are not
even assured of success. Numerous dead
ends have prompted many researchers
to postulate that the mechanics underly-
ing psi are simply too strange and too far
beyond transhumanity's understanding
of physical sciences—perhaps reinforc-
ing theories that the exsurgent virus is in
fact of alien origin.

One leading speculation is that the
changes wrought in the mind by infec-
tion actually entangle some of the
neural sub-systems, enable some sort of
quantum field within the brain, or pos-
sibly create Bose-Einstein condensates
within the brain, allowing for quantum


computation or perhaps hypercomputa-
tion. This enhances the async’s mental
capabilities to the level provided by
modern implants and neuromods—and
sometimes beyond. This does not explain
the capabilities of other asyncs, however,
especially those used to read or affect
other biological minds. These abilities
seem to involve reading brain waves
from a short range or affecting another's
mind via direct physical contact with
the target's bioelectric fields. Of course
| can only speculate in accordance with
what Firewall has uncovered—it is
quite possible that certain hypercorps or
other factions have made further break-
throughs, but are keeping the informa-
tion to themselves.

The initiation and use of psi talents is
generally understood to take place on
a subconscious level, meaning that the
async is not actively aware of the funda-
mental processes that fuel the psi-waves.
Training in certain skills, however, allows
an async to focus on certain tasks and
psi abilities. These are called “sleights:”
mnemonic or cognitive algorithms of psi
use rooted in the async’s ego.

The percentage of the transhuman
population believed to have contracted
the Watts-MacLeod strain remains sta-
tistically insignificant—less than .001%
of the population. The vast number of
asyncs have been recruited by various
agencies, “disappeared” for study, or
simply eliminated as a potential threat.

Ten years after the Fall, Firewall and
other agencies have come to regard
Watts-MacLeod infection as com-
paratively safe, though we remain quite
wary of unforeseen side effects or other
hidden dangers. Most of us engaged in
studying the phenomenon now consider
asyncs to be useful as a tool for fighting
the exsurgent virus and other threats—
despite the protests of those who are
convinced that asyncs are not in control
of their own minds and are not to be
trusted. As of yet we have encountered
no cases of Watts-MacLeod infection
that have inflicted anything other than
psi abilities, though there seems to be
an increased risk for asyncs to succumb
to other exsurgent strains should they
encounter them. There are other risks
associated with Watts-MacLeod infection,
such as extreme fatigue and even lethal
biofeedback resulting from extensive use
of psi sleights and a statistically likeli-
hood of developing mental disorders due
to the increased mental stress placed on
the async's mind. af


|











—- —-


a A!





# Start Ather Jabber #
# Active Members: 2 #


€ All right. | can’t say that I'll trust her, DI've heard from several of these


€ Sorry to bother you, but my muse just


alerted me to this excerpt that was
sent around to my Firewall team. Is
this for real? I've heard the talk about
psi before—enough to be convinced
that there's something to it, even
if we can't explain it—but this bit
about variant exsurgent infection is
too much. Are we seriously going to
be working with someone who's a
known carrier? And can you shed any
more light on how asyncs do their
mojo? I'm worried now. And since
you are connected to the Medeans, |
thought I'd take the chance and ask.


3 Well, as to the Medeans ... that's history.


| am back on the freelancing market
right now. But no problem, I'll try and
explain. | know it is not easy to grasp.


€ Shiny.
BD Yes, Srit was once infected with a


strain of the exsurgent virus, probably
on Mars near the end of the Fall. | say
“was” because the Watts-MacLeod
strain seems to go dormant shortly
after it finishes rewiring the victim's
brain; the plague nanobots die off and
get flushed out of the system, unlike
other exsurgent strains, which con-
tinue to stick around and transform
the subject. At least, that’s the domi-
nant theory—lI've also seen some
speculation that async minds might
be modified so that they continue to
produce bio-nanobots that linger in
the brain, though what function these
serve remains unclear. However, the
prevailing opinion among our best
neuroscientists is that people like Srit
are safe and non-infectious once the
virus has run its course. I'll even go
a bit further and say that prevailing
Opinion is that they can be trusted,
assuming they don't catch another
infection ... to which they are unfor-
tunately a bit prone. Not everyone
agrees of course, but we have an
abundance of paranoia in our circles.
So far, we haven't seen any evidence
that any of our asyncs have been
turned by that initial infection, and
the utility and usefulness of having
psi-actives on our side has simply
been too important to push aside.


but I'll try and give her the benefit
of the doubt. I'll be damned if I'm
going to trust an async that’s not
vouched for by Firewall though—who
knows what the hell a hypercorp like
Skinthetic might be cooking up in
their black labs.


9 That seems like a wise choice.
€ Maybe you can put my mind at ease


by explaining to me in a bit more
detail how Watts-MacLeod infection
Occurs.


3 Well, like the other exsurgent strains


you are unfortunately familiar with,
the primary transmission vector is a
nanovirus, but we speculate that it
may also be transmitted as a digital
computer virus or possibly even as
a basilisk hack. The physical plague
form is spread by highly advanced
techno-organic nanobots that infect
a biomorph and use biomimicry
mechanisms to pass as normal cells
and penetrate the blood-brain barrier
and central nervous system. The
nanobots are several steps beyond
FTANVAtaliare Mele lamccve al are) (ole \Vaer= lame) colelU laze
are very difficult to detect, and can
overwhelm most defensive counter-
measures. Infected minds are essen-
tially rewired, and these changes will
be copied when the ego is uploaded.
Synthmorphs and infomorphs remain
immune to this nanoinfection, but
they are theoretically vulnerable to
other transmission vectors.


€ I've heard that synthmorphs are


effectively invulnerable to psi as well.
This true?


Dyes. As far as we can tell, async


abilities only effect biological
minds—either their own or others.
And they can only read/affect others
from a very short distance, requiring
physical contact in most cases. The
half-biological minds of pods are
also vulnerable, though to a lesser
extent. Likewise, asyncs need a bio-
logical brain to use their abilities—
they can't use their psi if sleeved in
a synthmorph and have difficulty in
a pod.


€ Interesting. So, | have to ask again—


you're sure she’s safe? I've heard
that some of these asyncs can be real
nut-jobs.


asyncs directly. The fact is, infection
rewrites their brain, and some of
them came out the other side feeling
fundamentally altered. Either they
felt like a different person, or they
felt like there was something new
that was part of them—something
that they didn't necessarily like. One
described it as presence, another as
a black void that whispered at them.
Yet another described it as giving a
personality to their unconscious mind,
which only made the gulf between
unconscious and conscious mind
all the more intimidating. Some of
them preferred to suicide and revert
to a pre-infection backup. While they
may be more prone to cracking up
as a result, | haven't ever heard one
talk about their abilities as something
they couldn't control.


€ Well, that's fucking cheery. There's


nothing else we have on how this psi
stuff actually works?


9 Unfortunately, we don't. Even the


Prometheans haven't been much
help. There are theories, of course, but
nothing that we've been able to verify
with rigorous experimentation. It
doesn't help that the factions that are
aware of psi's existence don't exactly
compare notes—they’re all too busy
looking into ways to weaponicze it
and use it against each other, instead
of figuring out how to use it for the
benefit of transhumanity.


€ Of course. The TITANs didn't get


us, but we can still get ourselves. It
worries me that the best we've come
up with is nothing.


Dit's important to keep perspective.


Transhumanity has come quite a
distance and made some impres-
sive accomplishments, but our
understanding of the universe is
still in its infancy. What we may be
facing here is something concocted
by an intelligence so far beyond our
own that we are but insignificant
insects in comparison. It likely has a
grasp on the universe that is simply
beyond our ability to understand. We
shouldn't be cocky and think that
we can decipher any mystery thrown
at us ... we should instead be very,
very afraid.


MIND HACKS =














Though neuroscience has ascended to impressive
pinnacles, allowing minds to be thoroughly scanned,
mapped, and emulated as software, the transhuman
brain remains a place that is complicated, not fully
understood, and thoroughly messy. Despite a preva-
lence of neural modifications, meddling with the seat
of consciousness remains a tricky and hazardous
procedure. Nevertheless, psychosurgery—editing the
mind as software—remains common and widespread,
sometimes with unexpected results.

Likewise, even as the knowledge of neuroscientists
grows on an exponential basis, some are discovering
that minds are far more mysterious than they had
ever imagined. During the Fall, scattered reports
of “anomalous activity” by individuals infected by
one of the numerous circulating nanoplagues were
discounted as fear and paranoia, but subsequent
investigations by black-budget labs has proven oth-
erwise. Now, top-level confidential networks whisper
that this infection inflicts intricate changes in the
victim’s neural network that imbue them with strange
and inexplicable abilities. The exact mechanism and
nature of these abilities remains unexplained and
outside the grasp of modern transhuman science.
Given the evidence of a new brainwave type and the
paranormal nature of this phenomenon, it is loosely
referred to as “psi.”


pa


In Eclipse Phase, psi is considered a special cognitive
condition resulting from infection by the mutant—and
hopefully otherwise benign—Watts-MacLeod strain
of the exsurgent virus (p. 367). This plague modifies
the victim’s mind, conferring special abilities. These
abilities are inherent to the brain’s architecture and
are copied when the mind is uploaded, allowing the
character to retain their psi abilities when changing
from morph to morph.


PREREQUISITES


To wield psi, a character must acquire the Psi trait
(p. 147) during character creation. It is theoreti-
cally also possible to acquire the use of psi in game
via infection by the Watts-MacLeod strain; see The
Exsurgent Virus, p. 362.

Psi ability is considered an innate ability of the
ego and not a biological or genetic predisposition of
the morph. While psi researchers do not understand
how it is possible to transfer this ability via uploads,
backups, and farcasting, it has been speculated that
all components of an async’s ego are entangled on
a quantum level or that they possess the ability to
entangle themselves or form a unique conformation
or alignment as a whole even after they have been








copied, up-, or downloaded. This speculated entangle-
ment process is also thought to be the origin of the
impairment that asyncs experience when adapting to
a new morph (see below).


MORPHS AND Pol


Asyncs require a biological brain to draw on their
abilities (the brains of uplifted animals count). An
async whose ego is downloaded into an infomorph or
fully computerized brain (synthmorphs) has no access
to their abilities as long they remain in that morph.

Asyncs inhabiting a pod morph may use psi, but
their abilities are restricted as pod brains are only
partly biological. Pod-morphed asyncs suffer a —30
modifier on all tests involving the use of psi sleights
and the strain from using sleights is doubled.


MORPH ACCLIMATIZATION


Async minds undergo extra difficulty adjusting to new
morphs. For 1 day after the character has resleeved, they
will suffer the effects of a single derangement (p. 210).
The gamemaster and player should choose a derange-
ment appropriate to the character and story. Minor
derangements are recommended, but at the gamemas-
ter’s discretion moderate or major derangements may
be applied. No trauma is inflicted with this derangement.


MORPH FEVER


Asynces find it irritating and traumatizing to endure life
as an infomorph, pod, or synthmorph for long periods
of time. This phenomenon, known as morph fever,
might cause temporary derangements and trauma to
the asyncs’ ego, possibly even to the grade of perma-
nent disorders. If stored or held captive as an active
infomorph (i.e., not in virtual stasis), the async might
go insane if not psychologically aided by some sort of
anodyne program or supporting person during storage.
In game terms, asyncs take 1d10 + 2 (round up)
points of mental stress damage per month they stay in
a pod, synthmorph or infomorph form without psycho-
logical assistance by a psychiatrist, software, or muse.


D5] DRAWBACKS


There are several drawbacks to psi ability:


e The variant exsurgent strain that endows psi ability
rewires the character’s brain. An unfortunate side
effect to this change is that asyncs acquire a vulner-
ability to mental stress. Reduce the async’s Trauma
Threshold by 1.

e The mental instability that accompanies psi infec-
tion also tends to unhinge the character’s mind.
Asyncs acquires one Mental Disorder negative trait,
see p. 150 for each level they have of the Psi trait
without receiving any bonus CP. The gamemaster











and player should agree on a disorder appropriate
to the character. This disorder may be treated over
time, according to normal rules (see Mental Healing
and Psychotherapy, p. 215).

e Characters with the Psi trait are also vulnerable
to infection by other strains of the exsurgent virus.
The character suffers a -20 modifier when resisting
exsurgent infection (p. 362).

e Critical failures when using psi tend to stress the
asyne’s mind. Each time a critical failure is rolled
when making a sleight-related test, the async suffers
a temporary brain seizure. They suffer a -30 modi-
fier and are incapable of acting until the end of
the next Action Turn. They must also succeed in a
WIL + COG Test or fall down.


DS! SRILLS AND SLEIGHTS


Transhuman psi users can manipulate their egos and
otherwise create effects that often cannot be matched or
mimicked by technological means. To use these abilities,
they train their mental processes and practice cognitive
algorithms called sleights, which they can subcon-
sciously recall and use as necessary. Sleights fall into
two categories: psi-chi (cognitive enhancements, p. 223)
and psi-gamma (brainwave reading and manipulation,
p. 226). Psi-chi sleights are available to anyone with
the Psi trait (p. 147), but psi-gamma sleights are only
available to characters with the Psi trait at Level 2. In
order to use these sleights, the async must be skilled in
the Control, (p. 178), Psi Assault, (p. 184), and/or Sense
skills, (p. 184), as appropriate to each sleight.


ROLEPLAYING ASYNCS


Any player who chooses to play an async should keep
the origin of their abilities in mind: Watts-MacLeod
strain infection. The character may not be aware of this
source, but they undoubtedly know that they underwent
some sort of transformation and have talents that no
one else does. If unaware of the infection, they have
likely learned to keep their abilities secret lest they be
ridiculed, attacked, or whisked away to some secret
testing program. Learning the truth about their nature
could even be the starting point of a campaign and/or
their introduction to Firewall. If they know the truth,
however, the character must live with the fact that they
are the victim of a nanoplague likely spread by the
TITANs that may or may not lead to complications, side
effects, or other unexpected revelations in their future.
Gamemasters and players should make an effort
to explore the nature of this infection and how the
character perceives it. As noted previously, asyncs are
often profoundly changed people. The invasive and
alien aspect of their abilities should not be lost on
them. For example, an async might conceive of their
psi talents as a sort of parasitic entity, living off their
sleights, or they might feel that using these powers
puts them in touch with some sort of fundamental
substrate of the universe that is weird and terrifying.
Alternately, they could feel as if their personality was
melded with something different, something that


ret 5








doesn’t belong. Each async is likely to view their situ-
ation differently—and none of them pleasantly.


USING Pl


Using psi—t.e., drawing on a certain sleight to procure
some kind of effect—does not always require a test.
Each sleight description details how the power is used.


ACTIVE PSI


Active psi sleights must be “activated” to be used.
These sleights usually require a skill test. Sleights
that target other sentient beings or life forms are
always Opposed Tests, while others are handled as
Success Tests. The level of concentration required to
use these sleights varies and so may call for a Quick,
Complex, or Task Action. Active sleights also cause
strain (p. 223) to the async. Most psi-gamma sleights
fall into this category.

Active sleights count as mental actions for charac-
ters who have augmentations that grant extra mental
actions. Due to the concentration required, however,
active psi-gamma sleights cannot be used in the same
Action Phase with other mental actions that require a
Complex Action.


PHOSIVE Pl


Passive psi sleights are abilities that are considered
automatically active and subconscious. They rarely
require an action to be activated and require no effort
or strain by the psi user. Passive sleights typically add
bonuses to various activities or allow access to certain
abilities rather than calling for some kind of skill test.
Most psi-chi sleights fall into this category.


D5! RANGE


Sleights have a Range of either Self, Touch, or Close.

Self: These sleights only affect the async.

Touch: Sleights with a Touch range may be used
against other biological life, but the async must have
physical contact with the target. If the target avoids
being touched, this requires a successful melee attack,
applying the touch-only +20 modifier. This attack
does not cause damage and is considered part of the
same action as the psi use.

Close: Close sleights involve interaction with other
biological life from a short distance. The optimal dis-
tance is within 5 meters. For each meter beyond that,
apply a -10 modifier to the test.

Psi vs. Psi: Due to the nature of psi, sleights are
more effective against other psi users. Sleights with
a range of Touch may be used from a Close range
against another async. Likewise, a sleight with a
Close range may be used at twice the normal distance
(10 meters) when wielded on another async.


TARGETING


Synthmorphs, bots, and vehicles may not be targeted
by psi sleights, as they lack biological brains. Pods—
with brains that are half biological and half com-
puter—are less susceptible and receive a +30 modifier














when defending against psi use. Note that infomorphs
may never be targeted by psi sleights as psi is not
effective within the mesh or simulspace.

Multiple Targets: An async may target more than one
character with a sleight with the same action, as long as
each of them can be targeted via the rules above. The
psi character only rolls once, with each of the defend-
ing characters making their Opposed Tests against that
roll. The psi character suffers strain (p. 223) for each
target, however, meaning that using psi on multiple
targets can be extremely dangerous.

Animals and Less Complex Life Forms: Psi works
against any living creature with a brain and/or
nervous system. Against partially sapient and par-
tially uplifted animals, it suffers a -20 modifier and
increases strain by +1. Against non-sapient animals,
it suffers a -30 modifier and increases strain by +3. It
has no effect on or against less complex life forms like
plants, algae, bacteria, etc.

Factors and Aliens: At the gamemaster’s discretion,
psi sleights may not work on alien creatures at all,
depending on their physiology and neurology. If it
does work, it is likely to suffer at least a -20 modifier
and +1 strain.


OPPOSED TESTS


Psi that is used against another character is resisted
with an Opposed Test. Defending characters resist with
WIL x 2. Willing characters may choose not to resist.
Unconscious or sleeping characters cannot resist.





If the psi-wielding character succeeds and the
defender fails, the sleight affects the target. If the
psi user fails, the defender is unscathed. If both
parties succeed in their tests, compare their dice
rolls. If the psi user’s roll is higher, the sleight
bypasses the defender’s mental block and affects
the target; otherwise, the sleight fails to affect the
defender’s ego.


TARGET AWARENESS


The target of a psi sleight is aware they are being
targeted any time they succeed on their half of the
Opposed Test (regardless on whether the async
rolls higher or not). Note that awareness does not
necessarily mean that the target understands that psi
abilities are being used on them, especially as most
people in Eclipse Phase are unaware of psi’s existence.
Instead, the target is simply likely to understand that
some outside influence is at work or that something
strange is happening. They may suspect that they
have been drugged or are under the influence of some
strange technology.
Targets who fail their roll remain unaware.


D5! FULL DEFENSE


Like full defense in physical combat (p. 198), an aware
defender (even a non-async) may spend a Complex
Action to rally and concentrate their mental defenses,
gaining a +30 modifier to their defense test against psi
use until their next Action Phase.







—_ =
a








CRITICAL


If the defender rolls a critical success, the character
attempting to wield psi is temporarily locked out of
the target’s mind. The psi user may not target that
character with sleights until an appropriate “reset”
period has passed, determined by the gamemaster.

If the async rolls a critical failure, they suffer tempo-
rary incapacitation as their mind dysfunctions in some
harsh and distressing ways (see Psi Drawbacks, p. 220).

If a psi user rolls a critical success against a
defender or the defender rolls a critical failure, double
the potency of the sleight’s effect. In the case of psi
attacks, the DV can be doubled or mental armor
can be bypassed. Alternately, when using Psi Assault
(p. 184), the targeted character may be in danger of
infection by the Watts-MacLeod Virus (p. 368).


MENTAL ARMOR


The Psi Shield sleight (p. 228) provides mental armor,
a form of neural hardening against psi-based attacks.
Like physical armor, this mental armor reduces the
amount of damage inflicted by a psi assault.


DURATION


Psi sleights have one of four durations: constant,
instant, temporary, or sustained.

Constant: Constant sleights are always “on.”

Instant: Instant sleights take effect only in the
Action Phase in which they are used.

Temporary: Temporary sleights last for a limited
duration with no extra effort from the async. The
temporary duration is determined by the async’s
WIL + 5 (round up) and is measured in either Action
Turns or minutes, as noted. Strain for the sleight is
applied immediately when used, not at the end of
the duration.

Sustained: Sustained sleights require active effort
to maintain for as long as the async wants to keep
it active. Sustaining a sleight requires concentra-
tion, and so the async suffers a -10 modifier to all
other skill tests while the sleight is sustained. The
async must also stay within the range appropriate
to the sleight, otherwise the sleight immediately
ends. More than one sleight may be sustained at
a time, with a cumulative modifier. Strain for the
sleight is applied immediately when used, not at the
end of the duration. At the gamemaster’s discretion,
sleights that are sustained for long periods may
incur additional strain.


STRAIN


The use of psi is physically (and sometimes psycho-
logically) draining to a psi user. This phenomenon is
known as strain and manifests as fatigue, exhaustion,
pain, neural overload, cardiovascular stress, and ady-
namia (loss of vigor). Though strain has only rarely
been known to actually kill an async, the use of
too much active psi can be life-threatening in some
circumstances.





In game terms, every active sleight has a Strain
Value of 1d10 + 2 (round up) DV. Every active sleight
lists a Strain Value Modifier that modifies this amount.
For example, a sleight with a Strain Value Modifier of
—1 inflicts (1d10 + 2) -1 DV. Asyncs sleeved in pods
suffer twice the DV from strain.

If the damage points suffered from strain exceed
the character’s Wound Threshold, they may inflict a
wound just like other damage (see Wounds, p. 207).


Matric is investigating a disappearance, so he decides
to use his Qualia sleight to boost his Intuition while
hunting for clues. That psi-chi sleight takes only a
Quick Action to initiate and requires no test. Matric’s
WIL is 25, so the duration of this temporary sleight is
5 Action Turns (25 + 5 = 5). The sleight's Strain modi-
fier is —1, so he is facing (1d10 + 2) —1 DV. He rolls a
1, so he takes no strain at all!

Later on, Matric finds himself in a life-or-death
struggle with a kidnapper. Lucky for Matric, they're
in a melee, so he’s close enough to try and touch
his opponent. On his Action Phase, he makes an
Unarmed Combat Test with a +20 modifier (for a
touch-only attack) and succeeds. This allows him
to try and use his Psychic Stab sleight. He rolls his
Psi Assault of 57 against the target's WIL x 2 (32).
His target is in a worker pod morph, however,
which is less susceptible to psi, so he receives a
+30 modifier (32 + 30 = 62). Matric rolls a 32 and
the worker pod a 64—Matric wins! For damage,
he rolls 1d10 + (WIL + 10). His WIL is 25, so that's
1d10 + 3. He rolls a 7 and inflicts 10 (7 + 3) points
of damage. The worker pod screams in pain, suffer-
ing a wound from the psychic assault.


Dol-Chl SLEIGHTS


Psi-chi sleights are async abilities that speed up cogni-
tive informatics (internal information processing) and
enhance the user’s perception and cognition.


AMBIENCE SENSE
Passive Automatic
Self Constant


This sleight provides the async with an instinctive
sense about an area and any potential threats nearby.
The async receives a +10 modifier to all Investigation,
Perception, Scrounging, and Surprise Tests.


COGHITIVE BOOST
PSI TYPE: Active
Self
zs


The async can temporarily elevate their cognitive


Quick
Temp (Action Turns)


performance. In game terms, Cognition is raised by 5
for the chosen duration. This boost to Cognition also
raises the rating of skills linked to that aptitude.











MIND HACKS














SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL





A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SCARS
ACTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS
THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


















DOWNTIME
Active


RANGE: Self
SEINE VOD  O


This sleight provides the async with the ability to send


Task (min. 4 hours)
Sustained


the mind into a fugue-state regenerative downtime,
during which the character’s psyche is repaired. The
async must enter the downtime for at least 4 hours;
every 4 hours of downtime heals 1 point of stress
damage. Traumas, derangements, and disorders are
unaffected by this sleight. For all sensory purposes,
the async is catatonic during downtime, completely
oblivious to the outside world. Only severe distur-
bances or physical shock (such as being wounded or
hit by a shock weapon) will bring the async out of it.


EMOTION CONTROL


PSI TYPE: Passive NGTO)NE Automatic
RANGE: Self Deven Constant


Emotion Control gives the async tight control over
their emotional states. Unwanted emotions can be
blocked out and others embraced. This has the benefit
of protecting the async from emotional manipulation,
such as the Drive Emotion sleight or Intimidation skill
tests. The async receives a +30 modifier when defend-
ing against such tests.


ENHANCED CREATIVITY


PSI TYPE: Passive INGTO)NE Automatic
RANGE: Self Deven Constant


An async with Enhanced Creativity is more imagina-
tive and more inclined to think outside the box. Apply
a +20 modifier to any tests where creativity plays
a major role. This level of ingenuity can sometimes
seem strange and different, manifesting in odd or
creepy ways, especially with artwork.


FILTER
Passive Automatic
Self Constant


Filter allows the async to filter out distractions and
eliminate negative situational modifiers from distrac-
tion, up to the gamemaster’s discretion.


GRO
PSI TYPE: Active
Self
zl


By using the Grok sleight, the async is able to intui-


Nano Complex
DeNTeNe Instant


tively understand how any unfamiliar object, vehicle,
or device is used simply by looking at and handling
it. If the character succeeds in a COG x 2 Test, they
achieve a basic ability to use the object, vehicle, or
device, no matter how alien or bizarre. This sleight


does not provide any understanding of the principles
or technologies involved—the psi user simply grasps
how to make it work. If a test is called for, the psi user
receives a +20 modifier to use the device (this bonus
only applies to unfamiliar devices, and/or tests the
character is defaulting on—it does not apply to devices
with which the character is familiar).


HIGH PAIN THRESHOLD
Passive Automatic
Self Constant


This sleight allows the async to block out, ignore, or
otherwise isolate pain. The async reduces negative
modifiers from wounds by 10.


HYDERTHYMESTA
Passive Automatic
Self Constant


Hyperthymesia grants the async a superior auto-
biographical memory, allowing them to remember the
most trivial of events. A hyperthymestic async can be
asked a random date and recall the day of the week
it was, the events that occurred that day, what the
weather was like, and many seemingly trivial details
that most people would not be able to recall.


INSTINCT
Passive Automatic
Self Constant


Instinct bolsters the async’s subconscious ability to
gauge a situation and make a snap judgment that
is Just as accurate as a careful, considered decision.
For Task Actions that involve analysis or planning
alone (typically Mental skill actions), the async may
reduce the timeframe by 90% without suffering a
modifier. For Task Actions that involve partial analy-
sis/planning, they may reduce the timeframe by 30%
without penalty.


MULTITASKING


PSI TYPE: Passive NGTO)NE Automatic
RANGE: Self DeRyvvieNm Constant


The async can handle vast amounts of information
without overload and can perform more than one
mental task at once. The character receives an extra
Complex Action each Action Phase that may only be
used for mental or mesh actions.


PATTERN RECOGNITION
Passive Automatic
Self Constant


The character is adept at spotting patterns and cor-
relating the non-random elements of a jumble—related
items jump out at them. This is useful for translating
languages, breaking codes, or finding clues hidden






—_____—_—— _


= =
= |


Cc







— Ga


ee


among massive amounts of data. The character must
have a sufficiently large sample and time enough to
study, as determined by the gamemaster. This might
range from a few hours of listening to a spoken
transhuman language to a few days of investigating
inscriptions left by long-dead aliens or a week or more
of researching a lengthy cipher. Languages may be
comprehended by reading or listening to them spoken.
Apply a +20 modifier to any appropriate Language,
Investigation, Research, or codebreaking Tests (note
that this does not apply to Infosec Tests made by soft-
ware to decrypt a code). The async may also use this
ability to more easily learn new languages, reducing
the training time by half.


PREDICTIVE BOOST





PSI TYPE: Passive INGTONNE Automatic
RANGE: Self DervieNm Constant


The Bayesian probability machine features of the
async’s brain are boosted by this sleight, enhancing
their ability to estimate and predict outcomes of events
around them as they unfold in real-time and update
those predictions as information changes. In effect,
the character has a more intuitive sense for which
outcomes are most likely. This grants the character
a +10 bonus on any skill tests that involve predict-
ing the outcome of events. It also bolsters the async’s
decision-making in combat situations by making the
best course of action more clear and so provides a +1
bonus to Initiative and +10 to Fray Tests.


QUALIA


PSI TYPE: Active Quick
Self Temp (Action Turns)


SCVVINEVODM — |


The async can temporarily increase their intuitive
grasp of things. In game terms, Intuition is raised by
5 for the chosen duration. This boost to Intuition also
raises the rating of skills linked to that aptitude.


SSAA CALCULATION


“ PSI TYPE: Passive NGTO)NE Automatic
RANGE: Self Deven Constant


The character possesses an incredible facility with
intuitive mathematics. They can do everything from
calculate the odds exactly when gambling to predict-
ing precisely where a leaf falling from a tree will land
by observing the landscape and local wind currents.
The character specializes in calculation involving the
activity of complex chaotic systems and so can calcu-
late answers that even the fastest computers could not,
including things like patterns of rubble distribution
from an explosion. However, this mathematic facility
is largely intuitive, so the character does not know
the equations they are solving, they merely know the
solution to the problem.











This sleight also provides a +30 modifier to any
skill tests involving math (which the character is cal-
culating, not a computer).


SENSORY BOOST


PSI TYPE: Active Quick
Self Temp (Action Turns)


SEYVINE ODE —2


An async uses this sleight to increase their natural
or augmented sensory perception (visual, audio,
olfactory, etc.) by enhanced cerebral process-
ing, granting a +20 modifier to sensory-based
Perception Tests.


SUPERIOR KINESICS


PS! TYPE: Passive ACTION: Automatic
RYAN] as Self Deven Constant


The async acquires more insight into people’s emotive

signals, gestures, facial expressions, and body lan- ~~
guage when it comes to predicting the person’s emo- ~
tional state, intent, or reactions. Apply a +10 modifier

to Kinesics Skill Tests. “NX


TIME SENSE be


PS| TYPE: Active Automatic
Self Temp (Action Turns)


SCVVINEVODE — |


An async with this ability can slow down their per-
ception of time, making everything appear to move
in slow motion or at reduced speed. In game terms,
this sleight grants the async a Speed of +1. This extra
Action Phase, however, can only be spent on mental
and mesh actions.


UNCONSCIOUS LERD


PS| TYPE: Active Automatic
Self Temp (Action Turns)


SVVINEWODa = +O


This sleight allows the async to override their con-
sciousness and let their unconscious mind take point.
While in this state, the async’s conscious mind is
only dimly aware of what is transgressing, and any
memories of this period will be hazy at best. The
advantage is that the unconscious mind acts more
quickly, and so the async’s Speed is boosted by +1.
The character remains aware and active, but is inca-
pable of complex communication or other mental
actions and is motivated by instinct and primitive


Cc
=
ie |
—*
= os
|
=
=


urges more than conscious thought. Though it is
recommended that the player retain control of
their character while using Unconscious Lead, the
gamemaster should feel free to direct the character’s
actions as they see fit.











SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH





ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





















DOl-GAMMA SLEIGHTS


Psi-gamma sleights deal with contacting (reading
and communicating) and influencing the function of
biological minds (egos within a biomorph, but also
including animal life). Psi-gamma is only available to
characters with Level 2 of the Psi trait.

Most psi-gamma use is handled as an Opposed Test
between the async and the target (p. 222).


ALIENATION
PSI TYPE: Active Complex


Touch Temp (Action Turns)
+0 RMBs Assaut


Alienation is an offensive sleight that create a sense of
disconnection between an ego and its morph—similar
to that experienced when resleeved into a new body.
The ego finds their body cumbersome, strange, and
alien, almost like they are a prisoner within it. If the
async beats the target in an Opposed Test, treat the
result as a failed Integration Test (p. 271) for the
target. This effect lasts for the sleight’s duration.


CHARISMA
PS| TYPE: Active Quick


RANGE: Touch DoWeNe Temp (Minutes)
SEO = —| SKILL: Control


The async uses this sleight to influence the target’s
mind on a subconscious level so that the target per-
ceives them to be charming, magnetic, and persuasive.
If the async beats the target in an Opposed Test, they
gain a +30 modifier on all subsequent Social Skill
Tests for the chosen duration.


CLOUD MEMORY


PSI TYPE: Active


NeioNae Complex
RANGE: Touch Doe Temp (Minutes)
SRNEVODe — SKILL: Control


Cloud Memory allows the async to temporarily
disrupt the target’s ability to form long-term memo-
ries. If the async wins the Opposed Test, the target’s
memory-saving ability is negated for the duration.
The target will retain short-term memories during
this time, but will soon forget anything that occurred
while this sleight was in effect.


DEEP SCAn
PS| TYPE: Active Complex


RANGE: Touch Deven Sustained
SEVNINEVODE  -+ | SKILL: Sense


Deep Scan is a more intrusive version of Thought
Browse (p. 228), made to extract information from the
targeted individual. If the Opposed Test succeeds, the
async telepathically invades the target’s mind and can
probe it for information. For every 10 full points of MoS
the async achieves on their test, they retrieve one piece
of information. Each item takes one full Action Turn to





retrieve, during which the sleight must be sustained. The


target is aware of this mental probing, though they will
not know what information the async acquired.


DRIVE EMOTION
PS| TYPE: Active Complex


RANGE: Touch eNom Temp (Action Turns)
STRAIN MOD: Jill SKILL: Control


This sleight allows the async to stimulate cortical areas
of the target’s brain related to emotion. This allows the
async to induce, amplify, or tone down specific emo-
tions, thereby manipulating the target. If the async beats
the target in an Opposed Test, they will act in accor-
dance with the emotion for the duration and under
certain circumstances may suffer from certain penalties
(up to +/-30), as determined by the gamemaster. For
example, an async might receive a +30 Intimidation Test
modifier against a target imbued withe fear.


EGO SENSE
PSI TYPE: Active Complex


RANGE: Close PON Temp (Action Turns)
SIVNINEVODE  — | SKILL: Sense


Ego Sense can be used to detect the presence and loca-
tion of other sentient and biological life forms (i.e.,
egos) within the async’s range. To detect these life forms,
the async makes a single Sense Test, opposed by each
life form within range. The async may suffer a modifier
for detecting small animals and insects, similar to the
modifier applied for targeting them in ranged combat
(Combat Modifiers table, p. 193); likewise, a modifier
for detecting larger life forms may also be applied. If
successful, the async detects that the life form is nearby.
Every 10 full points of MoS will ascertain another piece
of information regarding the detected life: direction
from async, approximate size, type of creature, distance
from async, etc. The async will know if the target moves,
if they do so during the sleight’s duration.


EMPATHIC SCAN
PSI TYPE: Active
Close Sustained
~2 Sense


Empathic Scan enables the async to sense the target’s


NeneNee Quick


base emotions. If the async wins the Opposed Test,
they intuitively feel the target’s current emotional
state for as long as the sleight is sustained. At the
gamemaster’s discretion, this knowledge may provide
a modifier (up to +30) for certain Social skill tests.


IMPLANT MEMORY

PS| TYPE: Active Complex
Touch Instant
+0 Control


An async using this sleight can implant a memory
of up to an hour’s length inside the target’s mind.








This memory very obviously does not belong to the
target—there is no way they will confuse it for one
of their own. The intent is not to fake memories, but
to place one of the async’s memories in the target’s
mind so that the target can access it just like any other
memory. This can be useful for “archiving” important
data with an ally, providing a literal alternate perspec-
tive, or simply making a “data dump” for the target
to peruse. Implant Memory requires an Opposed Test
against unwilling participants. At the gamemaster’s
discretion, particularly traumatic memories might
inflict mental stress on the recipient (p. 214).


IMPLANT ShILL


Active FNaie\aw Complex
Touch DU Temp (Action Turns)
+0 Control


Similar to Implant Memory, this sleight allows the async
to impart some of their expertise and implant it into
the target’s mind. For the duration of the sleight, the
target benefits when using that skill. If the async’s skill
is between 31 and 60, the target receives a +10 bonus. If
the async’s skill is 61+, the target receives a +20 bonus.
Implant Skill requires an Opposed Test against unwilling
participants. In some cases, the target has been known to
use the skill with the async’s flair and mannerisms.


MIMIC


Active Quick
Close 10 Instant
+0 ; Sense


In a setting where changing your body and face is
not unusual, people learn to recognize habits and
personality quirks more often. The async must use
this sleight on a target and succeed in a Success Test.
If successful, the async acquires an “imprint” of the
target’s mind that they can take advantage of when


—


SS





impersonating that ego. The async then receives a +30


bonus on Impersonation Tests when mimicking the
target’s behavior and social cues.


MINDLINK


Active | Quick
Touch Sustained
} +1/target after first | Control


Mindlink allows two-way mental communication
with a target. This may be used on more than one
target simultaneously, in which case the async can act
as a telepathic “server” so that everyone mindlinked
with the async may also telepathically communicate
with each other (via the async, however, who over-
hears). Language is still a factor in mindlinked com-
munications, but this barrier may be overcome by
transmitting sounds, images, emotions, and other sen-
sations. Mindlink requires an Opposed Test against
unwilling participants.


OMMN! AWARENESS


Active | Quick
Close | Temp (Minutes)
=I Sense


An async with Omni Awareness is hypersensitive to
other biological life that is observing them. During
this sleight’s duration, the async makes a Sense Test
that is opposed by any life that has focused their
attention on them within the sleight’s range; if suc-
cessful, the async knows they are being watched, but
not by whom or what. It does, however, apply a +30
Perception bonus to spot the observer. This sleight
does not register partial or fleeting attention, it only
notices targets who are actively observing (even if
they are concealing their observation). This sleight is
effective in spotting a tail, as well as finding potential
mates in a bar.
















SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS





SKILLS
ACTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS
THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





















PENETRATION
Wenig Active Quick
Touch Instant
1 per AP point RAMA Psi Assault


Penetration is a sleight that works in conjunction
with any offensive sleight that involves the Psi Assault
skill. It allows the async to penetrate the Psi Shield of
an opponent by concentrating their psi attack. Every
point of Armor Penetration applied to a psi attack
inflicts 1 point of strain. The maximum AP that may
be applied equals the async’s Psi Assault skill divided
by 10 (round down).


DS] SHIELD
Passive Automatic
Self Constant


Psi Shield bolsters the async’s mind to psi attack and
manipulation. If the async is hit by a psi attack, they
receive WIL + 5 (round up) points of armor, reducing
the amount of damage inflicted. They also receive a
+10 modifier when resisting any other sleights.


PSYCHIC STAB


PSI TYPE: Active


RANGE: Touch DeNTeNm Instant
SVVINEWODe = +O SKILL: Psi Assault


Psychic Stab is an offensive sleight that seeks to inflict
physical damage on the target’s brain and nervous
system. Each successful attack inflicts 1d10 + (WIL +
10, round up) damage. Increase the damage by +5 if
an Excellent Success (MoS of 30+) is scored.


SCRAMBLE
Passive Automatic
Self Constant


Scramble allows the async using the sleight to hide


Nano Complex


from another async using the Ego Sense or Omni
Awareness sleights. Apply a +30 modifier to the
defending async’s Opposed Test.


SENSE BLOCK


PSI TYPE: Active


Neo Complex
RANGE: Touch DON Temp (Action Turns)
SNINEVODe | — | SKILL: Psi Assault


Sense Block disables and short circuits one of the tar-
get’s sensory cortices (chosen by the async), interfering
with and possibly negating a specific source of sensory
input for the chosen duration. If the async beats the
target in the Opposed Test, the target suffers a —30
modifier to Perception Tests with that sense (doubled
to —60 if the async scores an Excellent Success).


SPAM


PSI TYPE: Active


Neo\ae Complex
ANGI Touch eNom Temp (Action Turns)
Tey +0 skit: J


This sleight allows the async to overload and flood
one of the target’s sensory cortices (chosen by the


Psi Assault


async), spamming them with confusing and distracting
sensory input and thereby impairing them. If the async
wins the Opposed Test, the target suffers a -10 modi-
fier to all tests the duration of the sleight (doubled to
—20 if the async scores an Excellent Success).


STATIC


PSI TYPE: Active


Neio\ae Complex
RANGE: Close WUNeNe Sustained
SNe +0 SKILL: None


The async generates an anti-psi jamming field, imped-
ing any use of ranged sleights within their range. All
such ranged sleights suffer a —-30 modifier. This sleight
has no effect on self or touch-range sleights.


SUBLIMINAL
PSI TYPE: Active
Touch Instant
42


The Subliminal sleight allows the async to influence


Neo\ay Complex


Control


another person by implementing a single post-hypnotic
suggestion into the mind of the target. If the async wins
the Opposed Test, the recipient will carry out this sug-
gestion as if it was their own idea. Implanted suggestions
must be short and simple; the gamemaster may require
suggestions be encompassed in a short sentence (for
example: “open the airlock,” or “hand over the weapon”).
The target may receive a bonus for resisting suggestions
that are immediately life threatening (“jump off the
bridge”) or that violate their motivations or personal
strictures. Suggestions may be implanted with a short
trigger condition (“when the alarm goes off, ignore it”).


THOUGHT BROWSE


PSI TYPE: Active


Nano Complex
RANGE: Touch WONeNe Sustained
SNINEVOD | — | SKILL: Sense


Thought Browse is a less-intrusive form of mind
reading that scans the target’s surface thoughts for
certain “keywords” like a particular word, phrase,
sound, or image chosen by the async. Rather than
digging through the target’s ego as with the Deep
Scan sleight, Thought Browse merely verifies whether
a target has a particular person, place, event, or thing
in mind, which can be used by a savvy investigator
to draw conclusions without the need to invade the
mind directly. Thought Browse may be sustained,
allowing the async to continue scanning the target’s
thoughts over time. The async must beat the target in
an Opposed Test for each scanned item.


EE Ss es ee


ee —






CT
=
|
i
-_


=


a
=
a


a —


Cc








POVCHOSURGERY


Given the teach Ohem@ecutosclenco mmm ticmtiml cman
Eclipse Phase, it is easy to think of the mind as
programmable software, as something that can be
reverse-engineered, recoded, upgraded, and patched.
To a large degree, this is true. Aided by nanotechnol-
ogy, genetics, and cognitive science, neuroscientists
have demolished numerous barriers to understand-
ing the mind’s structure and functions and even
made great leaps in unveiling the true nature of
consciousness. Genetic tweaks, neuro-mods, and
neural implants offer an assortment of options for
improving the brain’s capabilities. The transhuman
mind has become a playground—and a battlefield.
Nanoviruses unleashed during the Fall infected
millions, altering their brains in permanent ways,
with occasional outbreaks still occurring a decade
later. Cognitive viruses roam the mesh, plaguing
infomorphs and Als, reprogramming mind states.
An “infectious idea” is now a literal term.

In truth, mind editing is not an easy, safe, and
error-proof process—it is difficult, dangerous, and
often flawed. Neuroscience may be light years
ahead of where it was a century ago, but there are
many aspects of the brain and neural functions that
continue to confound and elude even the bright-
est experts and Als. Technologies like nanoneural
mapping, uploading, digital mind emulation, and
artificial intelligence are also comparatively in
their infancy, being mere decades old. Though
transhumanity has a handle on how to make these
processes work, it does not always fully understand
the underlying mechanisms.

Any neurotech will tell you that mucking around
in the mind’s muddy depths is a messy business.
Brains are organic devices, molded by millions of
years of unplanned evolutionary development. Each
is grown haphazardly, loaded with evolutionary
leftovers, and randomly modified by an unlimited
array of life events and environmental factors.
Every mind features numerous mechanisms—cells,
connections, receptors—that handle a dizzying





array of functions: memory, perception, learning,
reasoning, emotion, instinct, consciousness, and
more. Its system of organization and storage is
holonomic, diffused, and disorganized. Even the
genetically modified and enhanced brains of trans-
humans are crowded, chaotic, crosswired places,
with each mind storing its memories, personality,
and other defining features in unique ways.

What this means is that though the general archi-
tecture and topography of neural networks can
be scanned and deduced, the devil is in the details.
Techniques used to modify, repair, or enhance one
person’s mind are not guaranteed equal success
when applied to another’s brain. For example, the
process by which brains store knowledge, skills,
and memories results in a strange chaining process
where these memories are linked and associated
with other memories, so attempts to alter one
memory can have adverse affects on other memories.
In the end, minds are slippery and dodgy things, and
attempts to reshape them rarely go as planned.


THE PROCESS OF POYCHOSURGERY


Psychosurgery is the process of selective, surgical
alteration of a transhuman mind. It is a separate field
from neural genetic modification (which alters genetic
code), neuralware implantation (adding cybernetic
or biotech inserts to the brain or nervous system), or
brain hacking (software attacks on computer brains,
neural inserts, and infomorphs), though they are
sometimes combined.

Psychosurgery is almost always performed on
a digital mind state, whether that be a real-time
emulation, a backup, or a fork. In most cases, the
subject’s mind state is copied via the same technol-
ogy and process as uploading or forking, and run
in a simulspace. The subject need not be willing,
and in these cases the subject’s permissions are
restricted. Numerous psychosurgery simulspace
environments are available, each custom-designed
for facilitating specific psychosurgical goals and
programmed with a thorough selection of psycho-
therapy treatment options.


The Human Cognome Project was
an academic research venture to
reverse engineer the human brain,
paralleling in many ways the Human
Genome Project and its success in
deciphering the human genome. The


HCP was a multidisciplinary under-
taking, relevant to biology, neurosci-
ence, psychology, cognitive science,
artificial intelligence, and philosophy
of mind.


mUlaetcremr-lale Melo) oe) acclom evmcrel (-Vnti(e
and corporate entrepreneurs and
early transhumanist groups, the HCP
developed the fundamentals of digi-
tizing an ego and was a major driving
force towards the first transhumans
with elevated intelligence and brain
capacity. The HCP has also been
instrumental in cataloging transhu-
man minds and developing databases
of “mind patches” based on the


mind-states of healthy individuals for
treating mental diseases and damage.
Though most HCP data is available
to the public, some argonauts claim
that certain data is held hostage by
some hypercorps, potentially for the
development of proprietary mind-
altering technologies.

After the Fall, the remnants of
this project were acquired by the
Planetary Consortium. of





MIND HACKS












SYNOPSIS





SAMPLE CHARACTERS






a





rH





The actual process of psychosurgery breaks down
into several stages. First is diagnosis, which can
involve the use of several neuroimaging techniques
on morphed characters, mapping synaptic connec-
tions, and building a neurochemical model. It can
also involve complete psychological profiling and
psychometric behavioral testing, including personal-
ity tests and simulspace scenario simulations. Digital
mind states can be compared to records of people
with similar symptoms in order to identify related
information clusters. This analysis is used to plan
the procedure.

The actual implementation of psychosurgical
alteration can involve several methods, depending
on the desired results. Applying external modules
to the mind state is often the best approach, as it
doesn’t meddle with complicated connections and
new inputs are readily interpreted and assimilated.
For treatments, mental health software patches com-
piled from databases of healthy minds are matched,
customized, and applied. Specialized programs may
be run to stimulate certain mental processes for
therapeutic purposes. Before an alteration is even
applied, it may first be performed on a fork of the
subject and run at accelerated speeds to evaluate
the outcome. Likewise, multiple treatment choices
may be applied to time-accelerated forks this way,
allowing the psychosurgeon to test which is likely
to work best.

Not all psychosurgery is performed for the sub-
ject’s benefit, of course. Psychosurgery can be used
to interrogate or torture prisoners, erase memories,
modify behavior, or inflict crippling impairments.
It is also sometimes used for legal punishment
purposes, in an attempt to impair criminal activ-
ity. Needless to say, such methods are often brute-
forced rather than fine-tuned, ignoring safety
parameters and sometimes resulting in detrimental
side effects.











POVCHOSURGERY MECHANICS


In game terms, psychosurgery is handled as a Task
Action requiring a Variable Opposed Test. The psycho-
surgeon rolls Psychosurgery skill against the target’s
WIL x 3. Apply modifiers as appropriate from the
Psychosurgery Modifiers table.

If the psychosurgeon succeeds and the subject fails,
the psychosurgery is effective and permanent. The
alteration becomes a permanent part of the subject’s
ego and will be copied when uploaded (and some-
times when forking).

If both sides succeed but the psychosurgeon rolls
higher, the psychosurgery is effective but temporary. It
lasts for 1 week per 10 points of MoS.

If the subject rolls higher or if the psychosurgeon
fails their roll, the attempt does not work.

The timeframe listed for psychosurgical procedures
is according to the patient’s subjective point of view.
Since most subjects are treated in a simulspace, time
acceleration may drastically reduce the amount of real
time such a procedure requires (see Defying Nature’s
laws, p. 241).


MENTAL STRESS


Psychosurgery is a modification to the transhuman
mind and sometimes to the actual person that resides
in that mind. It is unsurprising then that psychosur-
gery places stress on the subject’s mental state and
sometimes even inflicts mental traumas.

Each psychosurgery option lists a Stress Value
(SV) that is inflicted on the subject regardless of
the test’s success or failure. If the psychosurgeon
achieves an Excellent Success (MoS 30+), this stress
is halved (round down). If the psychosurgeon rolls
a Severe Failure (MoF 30+), the stress is doubled.
Alternately, a Severe Failure could result in unin-
tended side effects such as affecting other behaviors,
emotions, or memories.


es






2
am |


Cc









EEE ———


If a critical success is rolled, no stress is applied at
all. If a critical failure is rolled, however, an automatic
trauma is applied in addition to the normal stress.
Some psychosurgery conditions may also affect the
SV, as noted on the Psychosurgery Modifiers table.


ROLEPLAYING MIND EDITS


Many of the changes incurred by psychosurgery
are nebulous and difficult to pin down with game
mechanics. Alterations to a character’s personality
and mind state are often better handled as roleplaying
factors anyway. This means that players should make





a real effort to integrate any such mental modifica- -—


tions into their character’s words and actions, and
gamemasters should ensure that a character’s por-
trayal plays true to their mind edits. Some psycho-
surgical mods can be reflected with ego traits, while
others might incur modifiers to certain tests or in
certain situations. The gamemaster should carefully
weigh a brain alteration’s effects and apply modifiers
as they see appropriate.


POVCHOSURGERY PROCEDURES


The following alterations may be accomplished with
psychosurgery. At the gamemaster’s discretion, other
mind-editing procedures may be attempted, using
these as a guideline.


BEMAVIORAL CONTROL
1 week


Limit/Boost —10; Block/Encourage —20,
GE Expunge/Entorce —30

(1d10 = 2, round up)

Commonly used for criminal rehabilitation, behav-
ioral control attempts to limit, block, or expunge
a specific behavior from the subject’s psyche. For
example, a murderer may be conditioned against acts
of aggression or a kleptomaniac might be restricted
from stealing. Some people seek this adjustment
willingly, such as socialite glitterati who restrict their
desire to eat or an addict who cuts out their craving
Oneal tix

Behavioral control can also be applied as an
unleashing or reinforcement. A companion may desire
to eliminate their sexual inhibitions, for example, or a
hypercorp exec may boost their commitment to place
work above all else.

A character will simply feel compelled to avoid
a behavior that is limited (perhaps suffering a -10
modifier), but will find it quite difficult to pursue a
behavior that is blocked (requiring a WIL x 3 Test and
suffering a -20 modifier). They will find themselves
completely incapable of initiating a behavior that is
expunged and if forced into the behavior will suffer
a -30 modifier and (1d10 + 2, round up) points of
mental Stress.





— a SNE a eH) SS SSS _—$————— ————<—<—— eam


Likewise, a character will feel compelled to pursue
a behavior that is boosted and will find it hard to
avoid engaging in a behavior that is encouraged
(requiring a WIL x 3 Test to avoid). They will have no
choice but to engage in enforced behaviors and will
suffer (1d10 + 2, round up) points of mental Stress if
prevented from doing so.


BEMAVIORAL MASKING
WHERE | week
Wa -20
1d10 = 2, round up


Given the ability to switch bodies, many security and
law enforcement agencies have resorted to personal-
ity and behavioral profiling as a means of identify-
ing people even when they resleeve. Though such
systems are far from perfect, someone’s unconscious
habits and quirks could potentially give them away.
Characters who wish to elude identification in this
way may undergo behavioral masking, which seeks
to alter and change the character’s unconscious habits
and social cues. Apply a +30 modifier when defending
against such identification systems and Kinesics Tests.


DEED LEARNING
Skill Learning Time = 2
d PM: | +20


Using tutorial programs, memory reinforcement pro-
tocols, conditioning tasks, and deep brain stimulation,
the subject’s learning ability is reinforced, allowing
them to learn new skills more quickly.


EMOTIONAL CONTROL
1 week


Limit/Boost —10; Block/Encourage —20,

We Expunge/Entorce —30

(1d10 = 2, round up) + 2
Similar to behavioral control, emotional control seeks
to modify, enhance, or restrict the subject’s emotional
responses. Some choose these modifications willingly,
such as limiting sadness in order to be happier or
encouraging aggression in order to be more com-
petitive. Mercenaries and soldiers have been known


to expunge fear. Follow the same rules as given for
Behavioral Control.


PSYCHOSURGERY MODIFIERS


PSYCHOSURGERY


SITUATION TEST MODIFIER








Te
——
C5
<—c
==
—
=
—


SV MODIFIER


Subject is is an n Al, AGI, ¢ Or yr uplift









SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS





ACTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS
THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


















INTERROGATION
Variable (gamemaster discretion; 1 week default)


A PM: | +30
1d10


Psychosurgery can be used for interrogative purposes
via the application of mental torture and manipula-
tion. A successful Psychosurgery Test applies a +30
modifier to the Intimidation Test for interrogation.


MEMORY EDITING
1 week (2 weeks adding/replacing)
PM: —10 (willing) or —30 (forced)


(1d10 = 2, round up)
By monitoring memory recall (forcibly invoked if nec-
essary), psychosurgeons can identify where memories
are stored in the brain and target them for removal.
Memory storage is complex and diffused, however,
and often linked to other memories, so removing one
memory may affect others (gamemaster discretion).

Adding or replacing memories is a much more com-
plicated operation and requires that such memories be
copied from someone who has experienced them or
manufactured with XP software. Even when success-
fully implanted, fake memories may clash with other
(real) memories unless those are also erased.


PERSONALITY EDITING
WOE 1 week


4 PM: | Minor —10; Moderate —20, Major —30
(1d10 = 2, round up) + 3


Possibly the most drastic psychosurgery procedure,
personality editing involves altering the subject’s core
personality traits. The personality factors that may be
modified are almost unlimited, including traits such
as openness, conscientiousness, altruism, extroversion/
introversion, impulsiveness, curiosity, creativity, con-
fidence, sexual orientation, and self-control, among
others. These traits may be enhanced or reduced to
varying degrees. The effect is largely reflected by role-
playing, but the gamemaster may apply modifiers as
they see fit.


PSVCHOTORTURE
WORF Variable


A PM: | +30
1d10 SV per day


Psychotorture is mental manipulation for the simple
intention of causing pain and anguish, reflected in
game terms as mental stress and traumas. Prolonged
torture can lead to serious mental disorders or worse.





PSYCHOTHERAPY
Variable

4 PM: | +0
Therapeutic psychosurgery is beneficial for characters
suffering from mental stress, traumas, and disorders.


A successful Psychosurgery Test applies a +30 modifier
to mental healing tests, as noted on (p. 215).


SKILL IMPRINTS
WORE) | week per +10
Wa +0
1 per +10


Skill imprinting is the use of psychosurgery to insert
skill-set neural patterns in the subject’s brain, tempo-
rarily boosting their ability. Skill imprints are artificial
boosts, however, degrading at the rate of —10 per day.
No skill may be boosted higher than 60.


SHILL SUPPRESSION
WO 1 day per -10
Ws -10
1 per +10


Skill suppression attempts to identify where skills are
stored in the brain and then block or remove them.
The subject’s skill is impaired and may be lost entirely.


TASDING
S TVEFRANE: EM


d PM: | +10

2
Tasping is the use of deep brain stimulation tech-
niques to tickle the mind’s pleasure centers. Though
this procedure is often used for therapeutic purposes
for patients suffering from depression or other
mental illnesses, the intent with tasping is to over-
load the subject into a prolonged state of almost
unendurable bliss. Such stimulation is highly addic-
tive, however, so character’s exposed to it for any
length of time (over 1 hour, subjective) are likely to
pick up the Addiction trait (p. 148). Some criminal
organizations have been known to use tasping addic-
tion and rewards as a means of controlling those
under their thrall.





: = _ Le,"
ee | ee —


oe eae Se


=. Y ——————————— ee as — = =
OO — —




















—_—— SS











<begin excerpt>

PSICLONE Project Quarterly Board Meeting
2nd Quarter 8 AF

FUTURA Project Conclusion—
Executive Summary Report

Prepared by Dr. Amelia Sheppard


Per request, | have compiled a review of the
Futura Project and its fallout, 5 years after
whistleblowers and intense media attention
forced us to end the project and release the
remaining subjects (dubbed “the Lost” by
popular media).

Futura was a joint initiative spearheaded by
Hanto Genomics and strongly backed by Cognite,
with numerous other partners (complete
list). The project was initially proposed by
my mentor, Dr. Antonio Pascal, whose team
had proven the feasibility of Accelerated Life
Experience Training (ALET) after a series of
pilot studies with two small (N<1000) samples.
While it is true that these early pilot studies
used both older subjects and a lesser amount
of time dilation, the rationale for the Futura
Project's ambitious program was justified by
a marked decrease in transhumanity's popula-
tion due to the Fall, a system-wide stagnant
population growth rate (blamed on various
factors including increased longevity, available
contraception, and rising despair over troubling
times), as well as a desire to move aggressively
into a new technological sector in the hopes of
fo) oh ecTialinne Re M@eLin eLsatLe\Y(em< le \Veclal tele (ce

Futura began immediately in the wake
of the Fall with an initial seed population
of mmm test subjects culled from extant genetic
material and gestated to between 1 week and
6 months after birth. Of these, less than 10%
were live births from either a surrogate or
genetic birth mother who had perished during
the Fall. The majority came from our Lunar and
Martian labs and were brought to term within
an exowomb.


After the sample was selected, all subjects
were sleeved into our fast-growth futura-
lede=)avem o)Le)anle) 4 elem exeyel(=cer-]ale Miave (acct M ini Ke meu ss
tomized simulspace accelerated learning envi-
ronments. The project made extensive use of
emergent technologies and techniques culled
from recaptured TITAN facilities, including neo-
genetic traits for the futura morphs and time
distortion applications for captive simulspace
populations. Futura ran concurrently on three
different research stations with a combined
staff of 2,211 researchers and support per-
sonnel and 45 AGIs custom-programmed for
expert child development. Project goals were
to raise each child to a subjective 18 years life
experience in 3 years objective time.

Despite omnipresent observation and
real-time adjustment of the simulspace and
educational programming for optimal nor-
mality, somewhere along the way the project
suffered a breakdown in quality assurance and
parameter monitoring that resulted in a near
total failure at empathy modeling. We first
observed this effect 11 months into the project
when the subjects had aged to approximately
6 years of age. Incidences of animal cruelty
and acting out had spiked, though at that time
they remained within acceptable standards.
Over the next few months this trend contin-
ued and Dr. Pascal authorized the usage of
more authoritative “parenting” to attempt to
correct for the borderline sociopathic behavior
that was being exhibited by 23.19% of all sub-
jects by the 18-month mark (9 years of age).

We now know that these changes had
the unintended consequence of suppressing
overt displays of cruelty and violence and
merely taught the majority of subjects how
to conceal their psychoses. It was also at this
time that the first deaths occurred. The initial
waves were thought to be accidents and
both the victim and perpetrator were usually
backed up to a week or so of subjective time.


— — i a


a OE Ce EE
a


= LS he


Post-project analysis now shows that 43.87%
of our subjects had engaged in at least one
act of premeditated murder by the 24-month
mark (12 years of age) and the counseling
protocols were only training them how to lie
more effectively.

It was at this point that myself and Dr.
Aaron Bharani advocated pulling the plug on
the project and bringing the subjects out to
real time and intensive counseling. Dr. Pascal
vetoed our concerns without ever taking them
to the board. As the project spiraled towards
its conclusion, a fork of Dr. Bharani went public
at the 34-month mark, inciting a firestorm of
controversy. While Dr. Pascal successfully tied
up investigators, hoping to see the project
through to its conclusion, the incident at our


Legacy research station occurred. Initial find-


ings concluded that one or more of the subjects
had escaped the program and were in fact


responsible for the habitat's environmental fail-


ures and the thousands of subsequent deaths.
In the face of intense public and private
scrutiny, many of the partners involved in
the project attempted to pull out and even
eliminate all traces of their involvement. In the
resulting chaos, an estimated =m subjects
were quietly released into the system’s general
population. It was only after this occurred that
all known subjects were identified as having
been infected with the Watts-MacLeod strain
of the exsurgent virus, though when and how


this occurred remains troubling and unclear.


Though later orders resulted in all remaining
subjects being euthanized and/or backed up


into cold storage, only =m of the released sub-


jects were recaptured. Of the rest, =m pursued


Sanctuary with sympathetic authorities,


mums Went public and submitted themselves
to extensive psychotherapy, =m were killed in
incidents of violence and not resurrected, and
the rest presumably went into hiding.

<end excerpt> Eo





SO








THE MESH


MESH INSERTS, ENDOS, ECTOS


To access the mesh, you need some sort of device. Often, these are
implanted right into your brain—a mesh insert, sometimes called an









“endo"—or an ecto, an external minicomputer. MM p. 237








INTERFACES


There are three protocols used to access
and manipulate data on the mesh. lM p. 239










Augmented Reality (AR): Information overlaid on the user's physical
senses—sight, sound, odors, tastes, and tactile sensations. Ml p. 239






~ Virtual Reality (VR): Physical senses are overridden and your character is
placed in a computer-generated environment—a simulspace. ll p. 240


Experience Playback (XP): A sensory recording, either of your own or
provided by someone else. Ml p. 241





Quite simply, your character will use the mesh for almost all their
communications, research, and plenty of recreation, too. Ml p. 123







Everyday Mesh Mechanics: The basic rules for
standard mesh use start here. Ml p. 245





Online Research: Your character will use the
Research skill to find info in the mesh. ll p. 249





A es


Both disembodied transhumans and
artificial intelligences roam the mesh. lM p. 244





~ Muses: A specific type of Al that functions as a
personal aide and companion. MM p. 244 and 264


~ AGIs: Self-aware digital consciousnesses, capable of intelligent
and autonomous actions. Ml p. 244 and 265





Infomorphs: Details and rules for digital egos. Ml p. 245 and 265





MESH ABUSES


The mesh is rife with miscreants,
opportunistic hackers, and people who plain
just don't agree with you. Ml p. 243





Hackers & Malware:
Two primary threats—people, and people's tools. Ml p. 243


~ Mesh Security: Four prime methods of security on the mesh:
authentication, firewalls, active monitoring, and encryption. MM p. 253


through the security quietly or launching brute-force attacks


O ~ Intrusion: Infiltrating a system can happen two ways: slicing
to knock the door down. Ml p. 254
Hacking Sequence: Quick-and-dirty hacking summary. MM p. 255


~ Intrusion Countermeasures: If your hacking efforts alert the system
to your presence, intrusion countermeasures will attempt to locate,
attack, or otherwise thwart you! Ml p. 257


Cyberbrain Hacking: Pods and synthmorphs are equipped


with cybernetic brains—and like other computers,
these can be hacked. Ml p. 261















Before the Fall, humanity interfaced with each other
through the internet, interconnected networks that
served as the technical backbone for the evolving
world wide web. While it began as an electronic
medium for retrieving information from various
sources (replacing even older paper-based info-
sources), succeeding generations emphasized digital
communities and hosted services such as networking
sites, wikis, blogs, and social tagging. These facili-
tated openness, collaboration, and sharing, thereby
laying the groundwork for a modern, interconnected
information society. Further stages emphasized
wireless interaction, geolocation, and semantic web
approaches and achieved quantum leaps in the realm
of user interaction with the advent of brain-computer
interfaces, augmented reality (AR), virtual reality
(VR), and experience playback (XP).

This environment, coupled with the exponential
growth of processing power and memory storage,
created an evolutionary path for the development
of intelligent agents—designed to augment human
information processing—that then transformed into
artificial intelligences (Als) in the following decades.
While these “weak” Als did not possess the full range
of human cognitive abilities, tended towards overspe-
cialization, and were restrained by programmed limi-
tations, the digital evolution toward artificial general
intelligences (AGIs)—“strong” Als with intelligence
capabilities that equaled or exceeded human abili-
ties—could not be halted. From this point it was but
a matter of time before so-called seed AI would come
into existence: machine minds capable of recursive
self-improvement, leading to an exponential growth
in intelligence. Unfortunately for transhumanity, the
TITANSs were the result.

Even before the Fall, however, the internet of
old was transforming into something new. Instead
of connecting via central servers, users were wire-
lessly linking to each other, creating a decentralized
intermeshed network of handheld devices, personal
computers, robots, and electronic devices. Users were
online all of the time and connected with everything
and everyone around them in a ubiquitous comput-
ing environment. This was especially true of those
participating in humanity’s expansion into space.
Disconnected from the internet due to distance and
light-speed communication lags, these users were
nevertheless connected with all of the people and
objects in their nearby environment or habitat, creat-
ing local wireless mesh networks. Thus was the mesh
born, taking the place of the old internet of earth, lost
during the Fall.





MESH CAPABILITIES


The mesh, as it exists in Eclipse Phase, is only possible
thanks to major developments made in computer and
communication technologies and nanofabrication.
Wireless radio transmitters and receivers are so unob-
trusively tiny that they can literally be factored into
anything. As a result, everything is computerized and
connected, or at least tagged with a radio frequency
ID (RFID) chip. Even food is tagged with edible chips,
complete with expiration date and nutritional content.
Other communications mediums, such as laser and
microwave links, add to the information flow.

Data storage technology has advanced to such high
levels that even an individual user’s surplus storage
capacity can maintain an amount of information
easily surpassing the entire 20th-century internet.
Lifeloggers can literally record every moment of their
life and never fear about running out of room. The
amount of data that people carry around in the mesh
inserts in their head or in portable ecto personal com-
puters is staggering.

Processing capabilities also exist at hyper-efficient
levels. Massive supercomputers are a thing of the past
when modest handheld devices can fulfill almost all
of your needs even while simultaneously running a
personal AI assistant, downloading media, uploading
porn, and scanning thousands of newsfeeds. Within
the mesh network, devices that near their processing
limits simply share the burden with devices around
them, creating a massively distributed framework that
in some ways is like an entire supercomputer to itself,
shared by everyone.

Similarly, transmission capacity now far exceeds
most citizens’ definition of need. Anyone born within
the last several generations has always lived in a
world in which hyper-realistic, multisensory media
of nearly any length is available for instantaneous
download or upload from anywhere. Massive data-
bases and archives are copied back and forth with
ease. Bandwidth is such a non-issue that most people
forget it ever was. In fact, given the sheer amount
of data available, finding the information or media
you’re looking for takes considerably longer than
downloading it. The mesh is also never down. As
a decentralized network, if any one device is taken
offline, connections merely route around it, finding
a path via the thousands if not millions of available
nodes. The entire mesh behaves like a peer-to-peer
network, so that large transfers are broken into man-
ageable chunks that take independent routes. In fact,
most users maintain personal torrent archives that are
publicly accessible and shared.

Private networks still exist, of course. Some are
physically walled away behind closed-access wired
networks or even wireless-inhibiting infrastructure








A very popular brand of mobile mul-
tifunctional personal digital assistant
before the Fall, the ecto name became
a synonym for handheld personal
computers in the Mesh Age. Standard
implanted computers are also some-
times referred to as endos to reflect the
difference between an external and an
internal device.

No matter if ecto or endo, modern
computers are governed by an operat-
ing system (OS), a multifunctional
Suite of programs that includes media


tools, a mesh browser, locator, social-
izing programs (messenger, socnet
updater), cartography and naviga-
tion software, language translation
software, and similar software tools.
OS designs are highly customizable,
allowing plug-and-use add-ons for
whatever additional software and
gadgets are desired. Typically, the
user's muse (personal Al assistant)
facilitates software interactions.

The ecto itself is typically the size of
a 20th-century credit card and can be








molded and shaped into different forms
due to smart material construction.
They are often worn as jewelry or cloth-
ing accessories, particularly bracelets.
The user interface varies according to
user preference. Wireless-enabled con-
tacts and earbuds equip users who lack
mesh implants, enabling them to expe-
rience augmented reality and the ecto’s
AR control interface. Standard entoptic
control interfaces are also available
via wireless radio, skinlink, and direct
fiberoptic line. ote








that keep a network isolated and contained. Most,
however, operate on top of the public mesh, using
encrypted tunneling protocols that provide private
and secure communications over unsecured networks.
In other words, these private networks are part of the
mesh along with everything else, but only the par-
ticipants can interact with them thanks to encryption,
user authentication, and message integrity checking.
With the factionalization of transhumanity, attempts
to unify software into standard formats have still failed.
However, different operating systems or protocols are
rarely an obstacle anymore due to easily accessible
conversion tools and Al-aided compatibility oversight.


MESHING TECHNOLOGIES


Almost all biomorphs in the solar system are equipped
with basic mesh inserts (p. 300)—implanted personal
computers. These implants are grown in the brain via
non-intrusive nanosurgery. The processor, wireless trans-
ceiver, storage devices, and other components are directly
wired to the user’s cerebral neuronal cells and cortical
centers responsible for language, speech, and visual
perception, among others. Thought-to-communication








emulations (so-called transducing) enable the user to


control the implant just by thinking and to communicate
without vocalizing. Input from the mesh inserts is trans-
mitted directly into the brain and sometimes perceived
as augmented reality, overlaid on the user’s physical
senses. In a similar vein, the mesh inserts installed in
synthmorphs and pods are directly integrated with their
cyberbrains (creating a potential security concern as
cyberbrains are vulnerable to hacking).

External devices called ectos (p. 325) are also
used to access the mesh, though these are growing
increasingly rare given the prevalence of mesh inserts.
Ecto interface options include haptic interfaces like
touch-display controls, bracelets or gloves that detect
arm, hand, or finger movements (virtual mouse and
keyboards), eye tracking and blink control, body-
scanning grids (body-axis control or all-limb con-
trols for non-humanoids), voice controls, and more.
Sensory information is handled via lenses, glasses, ear-
plugs (subdermal bone-vibrating speakers), bodysuits,
gloves, nose plugs, tongue dams, and other devices
that are wirelessly linked to (or physically plugged
into) the ecto.




















SYNOPSIS

WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


MIND HACKS
THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE















INFORMATION OVERLOAD


The mesh contains massive amounts of personal
and public information shared by users, a digital
commons of news, media, discourse, knowledge, envi-
ronmental data, business, and culture. Transhumans
embrace the mesh as a tool for exchange, commu-
nication, and participation with other users, both
local and far away. As such, the mesh is an up-to-date,
authoritative source on all transhuman knowledge
and activities.

Not everything online is available for free, of course,
except perhaps in the autonomist zones. Quite a bit of
proprietary data is kept off the grid in secure storage
or sequestered away in private networks. Some of
this is for sale and heavily encumbered with digital
restrictions—software, media, nanofabrication blue-
prints, skillsofts, etc. A thriving movement offers free
and open-source alternatives to much proprietary
data, however, and numerous digital piracy groups
deal out cracked versions of protected material,
despite pressure from some authorities. Other data is
simply secured from competitive interests (hypercorp
research projects) or is an extremely private affair,
such as ego backups.


SPIMES


Along with the accumulated data of transhuman
affairs, the mesh is also cluttered with information
derived from untold numbers of wireless-capable
sensor-enabled devices that continuously update
the mesh with their location, sensor recordings,
and other data. Colloquially called “spimes,” these
location-aware, environment-aware, self-logging,
self-documenting objects broadcast their data to
anyone who cares to listen. Since visual, auditory,
and other sensors are absurdly tiny and inexpensive,








they are ubiquitously incorporated into nearly every
object or product a person might wear, apply, use, or
internalize. This allows almost any user to reach out
through the mesh and gather environmental data and
ambient sensor recordings from a specific location
(or at least public locales—private areas typically
block such signals or slave them to a local AI that
filters their output).


SURVEILLANCE. PRIVACY, AND SOUSVEILLANCE


While spimes are easily trackable, they also con-
tribute to an environment of universal surveillance.
Between spimes, microsensors, ubiquitous security
systems, and the recording capabilities of the mesh
inserts used by almost everyone, just about every-
thing is recorded. Factor in the availability of mesh-
tracking, facial recognition, rep/social networks, and
other data mining software, and it rapidly becomes
clear that privacy is an outdated concept. Special
considerations must be embraced by anyone that
seeks to mask their identity or cover their movements.
Alternatively, off-the-shelf looks common with some
morphs (especially synthmorphs and pods) allow a
user to blend in with the masses.

Though in part this may seem an Orwellian sur-
veillance nightmare, the abundance of recording
tech actually works as “sousveillance” (watching
from below), serving a role in making everything
transparent and putting checks on abuses of power.
Authoritarian regimes tread carefully, as they are
also universally monitored, despite their attempts to
control information flow. Many people also willingly
participate in this open “participatory panopticon.”
With nearly infinite storage capacity, dedicated lifelog-
gers record every moment of their lives and share it
for others to experience.





INTERFACING: AR, VR, AND AP


Mesh media is accessed using one of three protocols:
augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), or expe-
rience playback (XP).


HUGMENTED REALITY


Most users perceive data from the mesh as aug-
mented reality—information overlaid on the user’s
physical senses. For example, computer-generated
graphics will appear as translucent images, icons,
or text in the user’s field of vision. While visual AR
data—called entoptic data—is the most common,
other senses may also be used. AR input includes
acoustic sounds and voices, odors, tastes, and even
tactile sensations. This sensory data is high resolu-
tion and seemingly “real,” though it is usually pre-
sented as something ghostly or otherwise artificial so
as not to be confused with real-world interactions
(and also to meet safety regulations).

User interfaces are customized to the user’s prefer-
ences and needs, both graphically and content-wise.
Filters allow users to access the information they are
interested in without needing to worry about extra-
neous data. While AR data is typically placed in the
user’s normal field of vision, entoptics are not actually
limited by this and may be viewed in the “mind’s eye.”





Nevertheless, icons, windows and other interaction
prompts can be layered, stacked, toggled, hidden, or
shifted out of the way if necessary to interact with the
physical world.


AVATARS


Every mesh user represents themselves online via a
digital avatar. Many people use digital representa-
tions of themselves, whereas other prefer more
iconic designs. This may be an off-the-shelf look or
a customized icon. Libraries of avatars may also be
employed, enabling a user to switch their represen-
tation according to mood. Avatars are what other
users see when they deal with you online—1.e., how
you are represented in AR. Most avatars are ani-
mated and programmed to reflect the user’s actual
mood and speech, so that the avatar seems to speak
and have emotions.


ETHOS


Entoptic tags are a way for people to “tag” a physical
person, place, or object with a piece of virtual data.
These e-tags are stored in networks local to the tagged
item and move with the item if it changes location.
E-tags are viewable in AR and can hold almost any
type of data, though short notes and pictures are the
most common. E-tags are often linked to particular


INFORMATION AT YOUR FINGERTIPS


i Mat=me) icon ivilale Miaucedaast-1ele) amie \uvc-b\cm-N\c-1i(-]e) (-make) am galey-1 mm aal-saMU l=] Ml al-male)aaar-) mal-lelie- 1m


LOCAL CONDITIONS


e E-tags pertaining to local people, places, or things.





e Local maps showing your current location, annotated with
local features of personal interest (according to your personal
preferences and filters) and your distance from them/directions
to them. Details regarding private and restricted areas (govern-
ment/hypercorp areas, maintenance/security infrastructure, etc.)
are usually not included without authorization.


Current habitat life support (climate) conditions including atmo-
spheric pressure, composition, and temperature.


Current solar system and habitat orbit maps with trajectory
plots, distances, and communication delays.


Local businesses/services, directions, and details.


LOCAL MESH


e Public search engines, databases, mesh sites, blogs, forums, and
archives, along with new content alerts.


e Syndicated public newsfeeds in a variety of formats, filtered
according to your preferences.


e Sensor/spime feeds (mostly audio-visual) from any public area
of the habitat.


e Private network resources (including tactical nets).


e Automatic searches for new online references to your name and
other subjects of interest.


e Facial/image recognition searches of public mesh feeds and
archives to match a photo or video still.


PERSONAL INFORMATION


e Morph status indicators (medical and/or mechanical): blood
pressure, heart rate, temperature, white cell count, nutrient
levels, implant status and functionality, etc.


e Location, functionality, sensor feeds, and status reports of your
possessions (via sensors and transmitters in these possessions).


e Access to one’s life-spanning personal audio-visual/XP archive.
e Access to one’s life-spanning personal file archive (music, soft-


ware, media, documents, etc.).
e Credit account status and transactions.


SOCIAL NETWORKS


¢ Communications account status: calls, messages, files, etc.


e Reputation score and feedback.

e Social network status, friend updates.

e Updated event calendar and alerts.

e The public social network profiles of those around you.


e The location and status of those nearby and involved in the
Same AR games as you.








A


SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


ATIME OF ECLIPSE ~ =


CHARACTER CREATION =


SAMPLE CHARACTERS
S.C HES





—__
>

















social networks or circles within that network so that
people can leave notes, reviews, memorabilia media,
and similar things for friends and colleagues.


SHINAI G


Since reality can be overlaid with entoptics of hyper-
real quality, modern users can “skin” their reality
by modifying their perceptual input. Environments
around them may be modified to fit their particular
tastes or mood. Need your spirits boosted? Pull up a
skin that makes it seems like you’re outdoors, with
the sun shining down, the sounds of gentle surf in the
background, and butterflies drifting lazily overhead.
Pissed off? Be comforted as flames engulf the walls
and thunder grumbles ominously in the distance. It
is not uncommon for people to go about their day
accompanied by their own personal soundtrack that
only they can hear. Even olfactory and taste receptors
can be artificially stimulated to experience sensations
like the smell of roses, fresh air, or freshly baked
pastries. While originally developed to make “space
food” less distasteful and counter space-induced
cabin fever for those that weren’t born in space, vast
archives of aromas, tastes, and environments are
available for download.

Skins do not need to be kept private, they may also
be shared with others via the mesh. Tired of your
cramped habitat cubicle? Decorate it with a custom-
themed skin and share it with visitors to make them
feel more comfortable. Found a new music track that


THER JABBER


# Start Ather Jabber #
# Active Members: 2 #


€ | have to tell you, after losing Kiri and Sal to that exsurgent


infection, my team is a lot more worried about contracting the
virus from digital sources. Actually, I'd label them as paranoid.
| don’t think they'll ever touch any salvaged electronics again
unless they're behind a zillion firewalls and the device is com-
pletely isolated and tested by a delta fork loaded with every
antiviral ware we can find first. Even then, they'd rather shoot it
than access directly or hook it up to an important network. After
seeing what the virus did to Sal, | don't blame them.

In our line of work, paranoia can be healthy.

€ Sure, but it’s also a pain in the ass. Security is always a trade-
off. Firewall’s gotta have something up its sleeve that | can pass
along to the rest to put their guards at ease.

Dyes ... and no. It’s complicated.

€ | don’t see why. Do we have a way of detecting and killing this
thing or not?

DSort of.

€ You're killing me.

Look. Ever since the Fall, we've had measures in place to
detect and counteract exsurgent infections and all of the other


livens up your day? Share it with others around you,
so they can nod to the same beat.

Skinning can also be used for the opposite
effect. Any undesired content of reality can be
edited out, veiled, or censored by modern soft-
ware programs or muses that engage in real-time
editing. Tired of looking at someone’s face? Add
them to your killfile, and you’ll never have to
acknowledge their presence again. AR censorware
is also common in some communities with strict
religious or moral convictions.


VIRTUAL REALITY


Virtual reality overrides the user’s physical senses
and places them inside an entirely computer-gen-
erated environment called a simulspace. While AR
is used for all common day activities and interac-
tions, VR is used mainly for recreation (gaming,
virtual tourism, escapism), socializing, meeting
(when face-to-face meetings are not possible), and
training. Dedicated networks with high-capacity
information processing are required to render and
run large and complex hyper-real simulspaces with
many users, and these are often hardwired for
additional stability. Smaller simulspaces capable
of hosting a smaller amount of users can be run
on a smaller distributed network of linked devices.
Many infomorphs and Als effectively reside within
simulspaces, and some transhumans have sworn off
the physical world altogether.


worms and malware the TITANs concocted. Firewall went to
great lengths to make sure that everyone had access to the
detection signatures and countermeasures—and we mean
everyone. They've been incorporated into almost every com-
mercial and open source security software released in the past
decade. Every habitat in the system—well, every one with a
lick of sense anyway—employs such measures in their choke-
points and mesh infrastructure.

€ | sense a “but.”

3 Yes. The problem is that the exsurgent virus and similar TITAN
infowar worms are adaptive. They're intelligent. Even though
we mostly eradicated them from our networks, new versions
periodically pop up, using some new trick to get past the
Firewall scans and wreak havoc. Our warning and outbreak
response system has it down to a science, and such instances
are usually contained.

€ Usually.

2D Well, there’s always the chance that variants are still skipping
around out there, under our radar. What's worse to contemplate,
though, is that we may get another major outbreak that spreads
to multiple habitats before we can contain it. That might get
very, very bad, very, very quickly. Se


















DEFYING MATURE 5 LAWS


A plethora of simulspace environments are available,
ranging from simulations of real places to historical
recreations or fantastic worlds representing almost
every genre imaginable. All of these simulations
are bolstered by the fact that possible scenarios are
not bound by the laws of nature. The fundamental
forces of reality, like gravity, electromagnetism,
atmosphere, temperature, etc., are programmable in
VR, allowing for environments that are completely
unnatural, such as escheresque simulspaces where
gravity is relative to position. These domain rules
may be altered and manipulated according to the
whim of the designer.

Time itself is an adjustable constant in VR, though
deviation from true time has its limits. So far, trans-
human designers have achieved time dilation up to
60 times faster or slower than real time (roughly one
minute equaling either one hour or one second). Time
slowdown is far more commonly used, granting more
time for simulspace recreational activities (more time,
more fun!), learning, or work (economically effective).
Time acceleration, on the other hand, is extremely
useful for making long distance travel through space
more tolerable.


ACCESSING SIMULSPACES


Most simulspaces can be accessed through the mesh
just like any other node. Since VR takes over the user’s
sensorium, however, and sometimes involves time
perception dilation, users are cut off from other mesh-
delivered sensory input and interacting directly with
other nodes. Instead, outside mesh interactions are
routed through the simulspace’s interface (meaning
that a character may browse the mesh, communi-
cate with others, etc. from inside a simulspace, if the
domain rules allow it).

Since physical senses are overridden when a user
accesses VR, most people prefer to rest their body
in a safe and comfortable environment while in the
simulspace. Body-fitting cushions and couches help
users relax and keep them from cramping up or
injuring themselves if they happen to thrash around.
In case of long-term virtual sojourns (for instance,
during space travel), morphs are normally retained
in tanks that sustain them in terms of nutrition and
oxygen. Many VR entertainment and game networks
offer dedicated and hardwired physical VR cafes
with private pods. Visitors rent a pod and physically
jack in, using either access jacks or an ultrasonic
trode net that reads and transmits brain patterns
when placed on the head.

When accessing a simulspace, the user first enters
an electronic buffer “holding space” known as a
white room. Here the user chooses a customizable
avatar-like persona to represent them in the simul-
space, called a simulmorph. From this point, the user
immerses themself in the virtual reality environment,
effectively becoming their simulmorph.





CAPERIENCE PLAYBACK


Every morph with mesh inserts has the capability to
transmit or record their experiences, a form of tech-
nology called experience playback, or XP. Since the
first programs were developed that provide a simple
interface to “snapshot” one’s experiences, it has
become extremely popular to share XP with friends
and social networks or with the online public at large.

The depth of these experiences depends on how
much of the recorded sensory perception is kept
when the clip is made. Full XP includes exterocep-
tive, interoceptive, and emotive tracks. Exteroceptive
tracks include the traditional senses of sight, smell,
hearing, touch, and taste that process the outside
world. Interoceptive tracks include senses originating
within the body, such as balance, a sense of motion,
pain, hunger, thirst, and a general sense of the location
of one’s own body parts. Emotive tracks include the
whole spectrum of emotions that can be aroused in
a transhumans. Due to the biological requirements
(neuronal and endocrine systems) of expressing emo-
tions, hardcore XP aficionados deem only the experi-
ence in and from biomorphs as the real deal.


MESH USES


There are many reasons people use the mesh. The
foremost is communication: voice and video calls
(typically displaying avatars rather than actual video),
electronic messaging (email, instant messaging, micro-
blogging), and file and data transfers. Socializing is
also key, handled via social and reputation networks,
personal profiles, lifelogging, chats and conferences
(both AR and VR), and discussion groups and forums.
Information gathering is also at the top, whether its
browsing the popular Solarchive or other databases
and directories, tapping the latest newsfeeds, brows-
ing mesh sites, tracking your friends, taking lessons
in VR, or looking up just about anything conceivable.
Recreation rounds out the pack, covering everything
from gaming (AR and VR) to experiencing other
people’s lives (XP) or VR tourism and club-hopping.


PERSONAL AREA NETWORKS


Since everything a person carries is meshed, most
people maintain personal area networks that route
all of these devices through their mesh inserts or ecto,
which acts as a hub. This is both a security measure,
ensuring they maintain control over their own acces-
sories, and a convenience factor, as it focuses all of the
controls in one place.


VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORKS


Virtual private networks (VPNs) are communica-
tions networks tunneled through the mesh, which
are dedicated for a specific group of people. The
primary use of VPNs is to create privacy and secu-
rity for their users, and so they typically use security
features such as ego authentication and public key

















SYNOPSIS


ss
=>
=
=
"waco
=?
=>
>
——)
_
_
="?
=
y= (


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


encryption. VPNs are regularly used to mesh mobile
offices into a corporate network or mesh people
together who work on or contribute a certain project.
Other VPNs—particularly social networks and rep
networks—operate with minimal security features,
simply serving as a network of specific users within
the mesh and making it easier to keep in touch,
transfer information, make updates, and so on. Most
VPNs come as specialized software suites that run
custom environmental programs that integrate into
the user’s normal mesh interface and AR.


SUCTAL NETWORKS


Social networks are the fabric of the mesh, weaving
people together. They are the means by which most
people keep in contact with their friends, colleagues,
and allies, as well as current events, the latest trends,
new memes, and other developments in shared inter-
ests. They are an exceptionally useful tool for online
research, getting favors, and meeting new people. In
some cases, they are useful for reaching or mobilizing
masses of people (as often illustrated by anarchists
and pranksters). There are thousands of social net-
works, each serving different cultural and professional
interests and niches. Most social networks allow users
to feature a public profile to the entire mesh and a
private profile that only those close to them can access.
Reputation plays a vital part in social networks,
serving as a measure of each person’s social capital.
Each person’s reputation score is available for
lookup, along with any commentary posted by
people who favored or disfavored them and rebuttals
by the user. Many people automate their reputation
interactions, instructing their muse to automatically
ping someone with a good review after a positive
action and to likewise provide negative feedback to
people with whom the interaction went poorly.


MOBILE OFFICES


Due to the lack of office space and the wireless
accessibility of most information, most businesses
now operate virtually, with few or no fixed offices or
other assets. Instead, individuals have become their
own mobile office. Bit-pushers and bureaucrats like
hypercorp executives, clerical workers, accountants,
and researchers—as well as innovators like artists,
writers, engineers, and designers—work wherever
they want to.

The most prominent example of this phenom-
enon are the bankers of the Solaris hypercorp. Each
employee acts as a mobile one-person banking office,
managing transactions via Solaris’s robust VPN.

On rare occasions, office environments are run
in simulspace with time dilation to maximize effi-
ciency. Since this requires the workers to access a
centralized wired network and leave their bodies
unattended while accessing simulspace, however, it
requires an extra level of physical security that is
typical only of some governmental installations and
corporate habitats.


LSLANDS Wl THE MET


In the time of Eclipse Phase, information can become
outdated quite fast, and the accessibility of new infor-
mation depends on your location. It’s easy to keep up-
to-date on your local habitat/city or planetary body,
but keeping current on events elsewhere is typically
reliant on the speed of light.

If you happen to be waiting on a message from
Mars while on a station in the Kuiper Belt, on the
edge of the solar system 50 astronomical units from
the terrestrial inner planets, the signal carrying the
message will be roughly seven hours old when it
reaches you. Of course, it will only reach you that
quickly if it was sent via quantum farcast, which is
only limited by the speed of light (not to mention
being rare and expensive in most habitats). If you
are not using a quantum farcaster, the signal may
take even longer and is prone to interference and
noise, deteriorating the quality and possibly losing
some of the content, especially over major distances.
Whenever you start dealing with communication
between habitats, you have to factor in the light-
speed lag: the amount of time it takes even the fastest
transmission to reach you. This lag works both ways,
so trying to hold a conversation with someone just
5 light-seconds away means that you’re waiting at
least 10 seconds to get the reply to whatever you just
said. For this reason, AR and VR communications
are almost always conducted locally, while standard
messaging is used for nonlocal communications. For
detailed discussions, it is often simpler to send a fork
of yourself (p. 273) to have the conversation and
then return.

Quantum-entanglement communicators (p. 314)
are one solution to this light-speed lag, though a
burdensome and expensive one. QE comms allow
for faster-than-light communication to an entangled
communicator, though each transmission uses up a
precious amount of quantum-entangled bits, which
are in limited supply.

Transmissions made between habitats almost
always occur via each station’s massive data relays,
where they are then distributed into the local mesh.
This bottleneck is often used by authoritarian habi-
tats to monitor data transmissions and even filter or
censor certain public non-encrypted content. Some
messages are also prioritized over others, potentially
meaning further delays.

The method of transmission between habitats
also sometimes matters. Radio and neutrino broad-
casts can be intercepted by anyone, whereas tight-
beam laser or microwave links are specifically used
as a point-to-point method that minimizes inter-
ception and eavesdropping. The use of quantum
farcasting using neutrino systems is completely
secure, however, and is the most frequently used
intra-habitat link.

What these lags, bottlenecks, and prioritiza-
tions mean is that some news and data takes a






































particularly long time to trickle from one local
mesh network to another, passing slowly from
habitat to habitat. This means that there are always
gradients of information available to different local
mesh networks, typically depending on proxim-
ity and the importance of the information. Some
data even gets lost along the way, never making it
further than a habitat or two before it is lost in the
noise. The only way to retrieve such information is
to track it down to its source.


DARKCHSTS


“Darkcasts” are ranged communications that go
outside of legal and approved channels. Since
certain habitats have strict regulations on transmis-
sion content, forking, egocasting, infomorphs, muse
abilities, and AGI code, underworld groups like the
ID Crew profit by offering illegal data-transmission
services. Primarily used for censored data and
banned content (like illegal XPs or malware), local
organized crime factions also often offer egocast-
ing services complete with resleeving and leasable
morphs, allowing egos that prefer discretion to enter
or leave a habitat without drawing attention. Though
the authorities hunt down these darkcast networks
whenever they get a chance, many habitats have a
sophisticated darknet infrastructure that makes use of
decoys, temporary communications lines, relays, and
regular transmitter relocation—not to mention judi-
cious bribing and blackmailing.


MESH ABUSES


As with all things, the mesh has its darker side. At
the basic level, this amounts to flamewar-starting
trolls, stalkers, or griefers whose intent is to mess
with others for a laugh. At the more organized level,
it expands to illicit or criminal enterprises that utilize
the mesh, such as selling black/snuff/porn XPs, illegal





















software, pirated media, or even egos. The most
infamous threats—thanks both to the Fall and to the
continuous sensationalism applied by media and stern
authorities—are, of course, malware and hackers.
Given the capabilities of modern hackers and the
vulnerability of many habitats—where damage to life
support systems could kill thousands—the threat may
not be over-exaggerated.


HACKERS


Whether individuals who are genuinely interested
in exploring new technologies and seeking ways to
break them in order to make them better, hacktiv-
ists who utilize the mesh in order to undermine the
power of authorities, or “black hats” who seek to
circumvent network security for malicious or crimi-
nal intent, hackers are a permanent fixture of the
mesh. Unauthorized network break-ins, infiltration
of VPNs, muse subversion, cyberbrain hijacking, data
theft, cyber-extortion, identity fraud, denial of service
attacks, electronic warfare, spime hijacking, entoptic
vandalism—these are all common occurrences on the
mesh. Thanks to smart and adaptive exploit programs
and assisting muses, even a moderately skilled hacker
cam be a threat.

In order to counter hacking attempts, most
people, devices, and networks are protected by a
mix of access control routines, automated software
intrusion-prevention systems, encryption, and layered
firewalls, typically overseen by the user’s muse who
plays the role of active defender. Extremely sensitive
systems—such as space traffic control, life support,
power systems, and hypercorp research facilities—are
usually limited to isolated, tightly controlled, heavily
monitored, hardwired networks to minimize the risk
of intrusion from snoopers and saboteurs. Various
countermeasures may be applied against such intrud-
ers, ranging from locking them out of the system to
tracking them back and counterhacking.














=





'@


SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


|


~
BS
=
=
wn





ACTIONS AND COMBAT


ae


MIND HACKS


THE MESH |





MALWARE


The number of worms, viruses, and other malware pro-
grams that ripped through computer systems during
the Fall was staggering. Many of these were part of
the netwar systems prepared by old Earth nation-states
and corporations and unleashed on their enemies.
Others were products of the TITANs, subversive pro-
grams that even the best defenses had trouble stopping.
Even 10 years later, many of these are still reappearing,
brought back to life by the accessing of some long-
forgotten data cache or the accidental infection of a
scavenger mucking through old ruins. New ones pop
up every day, of course, many of them programmed
by criminal hacker outfits, while others that enter cir-
culation are modifications and variations of suspected
TITAN designs, perhaps implying that certain parties
are intentionally tinkering with this code and releasing
it into the wild. Rumors and whispers circulate that
some of these TITAN worms are even more potent and
frightening than previously hinted at, with stunning
adaptive capabilities and intelligence. These rumors
are steadfastly denied by authority figures and security
experts ... who then quietly turn around and do their
best to ensure that their own networks remain safe.


Self-aware helper programs were originally designed
and realized to augment transhuman cognitive abili-
ties. These specialized-focus Als were then developed
into the more complete, independent digital conscious-
nesses known as AGIs. The further evolution of these
digital life forms into seed Als unfortunately led to
the emergence of the TITANSs and then the Fall. This
created a rift in transhuman society as fear and preju-
dice turned popular opinion against unrestricted AGIs,
an attitude of mistrust that still lingers to this day.


Als


The term AI is used to refer to narrow, limited-focus
Als. These digital minds are expert programs with
processing capabilities equal to or even exceeding that
of a transhuman mind. Though they have a person-
ality matrix with individual identities and character,
and though they are (usually) conscious and self-
aware, their overall complexity and capabilities are
limited. The programmed skills and abilities of Als are


Lor your mesn |
a renee


devices T


typically very specific in scope and aligned towards a
particular function, such as piloting a vehicle, facilitat-
ing mesh searches, or coordinating the functions of
some habitat subsystem. Some Als, in fact, can only
barely be considered sapient, and their emotional pro- |
gramming is usually narrow or non-existent.

Als have a number of built-in safety features and
programmed limitations. They must serve and obey
the instructions of authorized users within their
normal functioning parameters and (in the inner
system at least) must also obey the law. They lack self-
interest and self-initiative, though they have limited
empathy and may be programmed to anticipate the
needs and desires of users and pre-emptively take
action on their behalf. Perhaps most importantly,
however, is that their psychological programming
is specifically based on universal human modes of
thought and an understanding and support of trans-
human goals and interests. This is part of an initiative
to engineer so-called “friendly Als,” who are pro-
grammed with sympathy towards transhumanity and
all life and seek out their best interests.

In most societies, basic Als are considered “things”
or property rather than people and are accorded no
special rights.


MUSES


Muses are a specific type of AI designed to function
as a personal aide and companion. Most people in
Eclipse Phase have grown up with a muse at their
virtual side. Muses tend to have a bit more personality
and psychological programming than standard Als
and over time they build up an extensive database
of their user’s preferences, likes and dislikes, and
personality quirks so that they may more effectively
be of service and anticipate needs. Muses generally
have names and reside within the character’s mesh
inserts or ecto, where they can manage the character’s
personal area network, communications, data queries,
and so on.


bls


AGIs are complete and fully operational digital
consciousnesses, self aware and capable of intel-
ligent action at the same level as any transhuman.
Most have full autonomy and the capacity for self-


improvement by a processing similar to learning—a

















slow optimization and expansion of their code that
features programmed limitations to prevent it from
achieving the self-upgrading capabilities of seed Als.
They have more fully rounded personalities and
emotional/empathic abilities than standard Als, due
in part to a development process where they are
literally raised within a VR simulation analogous to
the rearing of transhuman children and so are more
fully socialized. As a result, they have a fairly human
outlook, though some deviation is to be expected and
sometimes is apparent in great degrees. Despite this
attempt to humanize AGIs, they do not have the same
evolutionary and biological origins that transhumans
have, and so their social responses, behavior, and
goals are sometimes off-mark or decidedly different.

AGIs bear the social stigma of their non-biological
origin and are often met with bias and mistrust.
Some habitats even outlaw AGIs or subject them to
strict restrictions, forcing such infolife to hide their
true natures or illegally darkcast to enter habitats or
stations. AGI mind programming emulates transhu-
man brain patterns sufficiently well that they can be
sleeved into biomorphs if they choose.


SEED Al


Due to the capability for unlimited self-upgrading,
seed Als have the capacity to grow into god-like
digital entities far beyond the level of transhumans
or AGIs. They require massive processing power and
are always increasing in complexity due to a con-
tinual metamorphosis of their code. Seed Als are too
complex to be downloaded into a physical morph,
even a synthetic one. Even their forks require impres-
sive processing environments, so seed AI forks are
rare. In fact, most seed Als require the capacities of
hardwired networks to survive.

The only seed Als known to the public are the
infamous TITTANs who are widely regarded as being
responsible for the Fall. In truth, the TITANs were
not the first seed Als and will probably not be the
last. There are no publicly known TITANSs (or other
seed Als) currently residing in the solar system, despite
circulating rumors of damaged TITANs who were left
behind on Earth, speculated TITAN activity under the
clouds of Venus, or whispers of new seed Als hidden
away in secret networks on the edges of the system.


TRANSHUMAN MF OMORPHS


For thousands of infugees, embodying a digital form
is their only choice. Some of these are locked away
in mesh-separated virtual holding areas or even inac-
tive storage, locked up by habitats who didn’t have
enough resources to handle them. Others are impris-
oned inside simulspaces, killing time in whatever way
they choose until an opportunity to resleeve comes
their way. Quite a few are free to roam the mesh,
interacting with physically sleeved transhumans,
keeping up with current events, and sometimes even
forming activist political blocs to campaign for info-
morph rights or interests. Still others find or are forced








NON-STANDARD Als
PAN TD ANCE:


Not all Als and AGIs were programmed and
(of=t [eo fal=re mm Kom-(elal=]q-m com aleianr-lamealele(--meolmaarelulelaye
and interests. Such creations are illegal in some
elakxel (eudelal-yar-|-mnsal-\var-1a-mcee) al-yrel-1e-10mr- Im eLela-lanar-)
threat. Several hypercorps and other groups
have initiated research into this field, however,
with varying results. In some cases these digital
aaliale(w-lasmxeMeoliai-la-lalamageanmalllear-lameslialeky-1emaar-ie
oo} galaalelaler=1 ace) alm -amlaa) oLes110) (=n (a moldal-a;pmm-valelele la
crossover exists to allow limited communication,





but such entities are invariably quite strange.


Rumors persist that some Als began their
life as transhuman backups or forks, who
were then heavily edited and pruned down to


Al-level intelligences.


into virtual careers, slaving away in the digital sweat-
shops of hypercorps or criminal syndicates. A few find
companions who are willing to bring them along in
their ghostrider module and become an integral part
of their lives, much like a muse.

Some transhumans willingly choose the infomorph
lifestyle, either for hedonism (custom simulspace and
VR games until the end of time), escapism (loss of a
loved ones leads them to write off physical concerns),
freedom (going anywhere the mesh takes them—some
have even beamed copies of themselves to distant
star systems, hoping someone or something will
receive their signal when they arrive), experimenta-
tion (forking and merging, running simulations, and
weirder things), or because it is ensured immortality.


EVERYDAY MESH MECHANICS


Everyone (and everything) is meshed in Eclipse Phase.
The following rules and concerns apply to standard
mesh use. Note that various mesh-related terms are
explained, along with other Eclipse Phase concepts,
under Terminology, p. 25.


MESH INTERFACE


Characters have a choice of which interface to use, the
entoptic interface of basic mesh inserts or the haptic
interface of an ecto.

The basic mesh inserts used by most users allows
them to interact with AR, VR, XP, and the mesh at the
speed of thought. This is the default method of mesh
use and suffers no modifiers. They are, however, more
prone to visual and operative impairments (virtual
illusions, denial-of-service effects) when hacked.

Characters who use the haptic interface of an
ecto suffer a slight delay on their mesh activities
due to manual toggling, physical controls, and
physical interaction with virtual controls. In game

















terms, the use of haptics imposes a -10 skill modi-
fier to all mesh tests where timing is rushed (par-
ticularly combat and or any sort of mesh use under
pressure). Additionally, increase the timeframe for
mesh-based Task Actions by +25% when interfac-
ing via haptics. On the positive side, ectos can be
easily removed and discarded if compromised—for
this reason, many hackers and security-conscious
users use an ecto in addition to their mesh inserts,
routing all high-risk traffic through the ecto as an
extra line of defense.


MESH ID


Every mesh user (and, in fact, every device) has a
unique code called their mesh ID. This ID distin-
guishes them from all other users and devices and
is the mechanism by which others can find them
online, like a combination phone number, email
address, and screen name. Mesh IDs are used in
almost all online interactions, which are often
logged, meaning that your activities online leave a
datatrail that can be tracked (see Digital Activity
Tracking, p. 252). Fortunately for Firewall sentinels
and others who value their privacy, there are ways
around this (see , p. 252). Als, AGIs, and info-
morphs also each have their own unique mesh ID.


ACCOUNTS AND ACCESS PRIVILEGES

Devices, networks (such as PANs, VPNs, and hard-
wired networks), and services require that every user
that accesses them does so with an account. The
account serves to identify that particular user, is linked
to their mesh ID, and determines what access privi-
leges they have on that system. There are four types of
accounts: public, user, security, and admin.


PUBLIC ACCOUNTS


Public accounts are used for systems that allow access
(or access to parts of their system) to anyone on the
mesh. Public accounts do not require any sort of


authentication or login process, the user’s mesh ID is
enough. These accounts are used to provide access to
any sort of data that is considered public: mesh sites,
forums, public archives, open databases, social network
profiles, etc. Public accounts usually have the ability to
read and download data and sometimes to write data
(forum comments, for example), but little else.


USER ACCOUNTS


User accounts are the most common accounts.
User accounts require some form of authentication
(p. 253) to access the device, network, or service.
Each user account has specific access privileges
allotted to it, which are tasks the user is allowed to
perform on that system. For example, most users are
allowed to upload and download data, change basic
content, and use the standard features of the system
in question. They are not, however, usually allowed to
alter security features, add new accounts, or do any-
thing that might impact the security or functioning of
the system. As some systems are more restrictive than
others, the gamemaster decides what privileges each
user account provides.


SECURITY ACCOUNTS


Security accounts are intended for users that need
greater rights and privileges than standard users, but
who don’t need control over the entire system, such
as security hackers and muses. Security access rights
usually allow for reading logs, commanding security
features, adding/deleting accounts, altering the data of
other users, and so on.


ADMIN ACCOUNTS


Admin accounts provide complete control over the
system. Characters with admin rights can do every-
thing security accounts can, plus they can shut down/
reboot the system, alter access rights of other users,
view and edit all log files and statistics, and stop or
start any software available on the system.


Say olUhVire) aren sal-1aNiVin t=) acquire : such programs, _
F) NTE CED HL the do- it- Evouteeies et


thic is ae


firey Uy ete) g-Lol-melal=
»y one level of quality
_ Multiple pice ialamnng


Oisa = mieUintaee on 1 the ageyere-lanlaaliare mm t= 19
Similarly, at the gamemaster’s discretion, soft-
ware tools—particularly exploits—may degrade


| general rule, such pro-
grams = should “degra e in foLUr-lihavar-] elolUn ame) ara=
every 3 months. | ; &
ae


MESH GEAR QUALITY


Not all gear is created equal, and this is especially true





of computers and software, where new innovations
are made on a daily basis. Keeping up-to-date with the
last specs isn’t too difficult, but on occasion the char-
acters will get their hands on some old relic or find
themselves in secluded or decrepit places with local
systems and gear that aren’t up-to-date. Likewise, they
may acquire some cutting-edge gear straight from the
labs or may run up against a state-of-the-art instal-
lation with next-generation defenses. To reflect this,
mesh tests can be modified according to the state of
the hardware or software being used, as noted on the


Mesh Gear Modifiers table.











COMPUTER CADRBILITIES


Computerized electronics can be broken down into
three simple categories: peripherals, personal comput-
ers, and servers. In game terms, all are collectively
referred to as devices.


PERIPHERALS


Peripherals are microcomputer devices that don’t need
the full processing power and storage capacity of a
personal computer but benefit from online networking
and other functions. Peripherals may run software, but
the gamemaster may decide that too many programs
(10+) will degrade the system’s performance. Als and
infomorphs are incapable of running on peripherals,
though they may access them. Peripherals only have
public and user accounts (users accounts include secu-
rity and admin functions; see User Accounts, p. 246).
Common peripherals include: spimes, appliances, most
cybernetic implants, individual sensors, and weapons.


PERSONAL COMPUTERS


Personal computers account for a wide range of com-
puter types, but essentially include anything that has
the capabilities evolved from generations of personal
computers to meet an everyday user’s needs. Most
personal computers are portable and tailored for use
by multiple users at a time. Personal computers may
run one AI or infomorph at a time. They may not run
simulspace programs.

Common personal computers include: mesh inserts,
ectos, and vehicles.


SERVERS


Servers have much greater processing power and
data management capabilities than personal comput-
ers. They are capable of handling hundreds of users,
multiple Als and infomorphs, and they may run
simulspace programs. Though few are portable, some
of them come close.


SUF TWARE


A wide range of software is available for mesh users,
from firewalls and Als to hacking and encryption tools
or tacnets and skillsofts. These programs are listed on
p. 331 of the Gear chapter.. Like other gear, software
may enable a character to perform a task they could
not otherwise. The quality of the software may also be


MESH GEAR MODIFIERS


Bashed-up devices, no-longer-supported software, relics from Earth or the early expansion into space


Malfunctioning/inferior devices, buggy software, pre- Fal technology


Outdated and low quality systems
Standard ectos, mesh inserts, and software


High- quality goods, standard security grade products Be


Next-generation devices, advanced software


Newly developed, state- of-the-art, top-ot- the-line technology. _


TITANs and/or alien technology















SYNOPSIS


ss
=>
=
=
"waco
=?
=>
>
———)
_
_
="?
=
g(


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


a factor, applying a modifier as appropriate (see Mesh
Gear Quality, previous page).

Some software is equipped with digital restric-
tions to prevent it from being copied and shared
with others. These restrictions may be defeated, but
it is a time-consuming task, requiring a Task Action
Programming Test with a timeframe of 2 months.
Thanks to the efforts of the open-source movement
and numerous individual software pirates, however,
quite a bit of software is available for free online.
The availability of pirated software or freeware will
depend on the local habitat and legalities. Finding it
may be a matter of a simple search or it may require
some use of reputation to find someone who has it.
Usually there is at least one local crime syndicate that
is willing to help you out—for a price.


SOFTWARE COMPATIBILITY


In most instances, software compatibility is not going
to be an issue for characters. Gamemasters who like it
as a plot device, however, can introduce compatibil-
ity problems in certain cases, whether this is done to
increase drama, slow the characters down, or create
obstacles that they must overcome. Such incompatibili-
ties are more likely to arise when dealing with outdated
systems or devices, or at least ones that are unlikely
to have the latest patches and software updates.
Incompatibilities can also be used as a drawback to
acquiring software from untrustworthy sources.

Conflicting software issues are going to have one of
two effects. Either the software will simply not work
with certain devices, or it will inflict a -10 to —30
modifier due to instabilities and glitches. If the game-
master allows it, a character may reduce this penalty
by patching up the software, requiring a successful
Programming Task Action (1 day). For every 10 points
of MoS, reduce the incompatibility modifier by 10.


TRAFFIC FILTERS AND MIST


Mesh networks and AR are overrun with yottabytes of
information. Though mesh inserts and ectos can deal
with a lot of data traffic in terms of bandwidth and
processing power, using filters to weed out unwanted
traffic is quite simply a necessity. This is especially true
of AR, where unwanted entoptics can clutter your
vision and distract you. Nevertheless, entoptic spam of
many flavors—advertisements, political screeds, porn,
scams—do their best to bypass these filters, and in
many areas the amount of unfiltered entoptics can be
overwhelming—a phenomenon colloquially referred
to as “mist.”

At the gamemaster’s discretion, mist can interfere
with a user’s sensory perceptions. This modifier can
range from —10 to —30, and in some cases might be
so distracting as to affect all of a character’s actions.
To lift the data fog, a character or muse must adjust
their filter settings by succeeding in an Interfacing Test
modified by the mist modifier. Alternately, the charac-
ter can completely disable AR input, but this is likely
to impede them in other ways.


SLAVING DEVICES


For ease of use, as well as for privacy and security
purposes, one or more devices may be slaved to each
other. One device (usually the character’s mesh inserts
or ecto) takes the role of master, while the other
device(s) takes the role of slave. All traffic to and
from slaved devices is routed through the master. This
allows a slaved device to rely on the master’s security
features and active monitoring. Anyone that wants to
connect to or hack into a slaved device is rerouted
to the master for authentication and security scrutiny.
Slaved devices automatically accept commands from
their master device. This means that a hacker who
penetrates a master system can legitimately access
and issue commands to a slaved device, assuming their
access privileges allow for it.

PANs are typically formed by slaving all of a char-
acter’s devices to their ecto or mesh inserts. Similarly,
individual components of a security system (doors,
sensors, etc.) are usually slaved to a central security
node that serves as a chokepoint for anyone hoping
to hack the system. The same is often true for other
networks and facilities.


ISOUING COMMAND’


Characters may issue commands to any slaved device
or teleoperated bot (see Shell Remote Control, p. 196)
with a Quick Action. Each command counts separately,
unless the character is issuing the same command to
multiple devices/drones.


DISTANCE Lib


Anytime you extend your communications over great
distances, you run into the risk of time lags. Most
communications are restricted to “local” for this
reason, which generally means your local habitat
and any others within 50,000 kilometers. On plan-
etary bodies like Mars, Venus, Luna, or Titan, “local”
encompasses all of the habitats and linked mesh net-
works on that planetary body.

If a character is searching the mesh beyond their
local area, the most efficient way is to transmit a
search AI (usually a copy of your muse) or a fork to
the non-local area, which will then run its search and
return completed results. This process does, however,
add to the time of transmission to the timeframe
(i.e., searching the mesh of a station 10 light-minutes
away adds 20 minutes to the search as the search
is transmitted over and the results are transmitted
back). Since long-distance communications are some-
times interfered with or bumped for higher-priority
items, the gamemaster can increase this time at their
discretion. If the research involves correlation and
fine-tuning the search parameters based on data accu-
mulated from different locals, the timeframe may be
exponentially increased due to the need for back-and-
forth interaction.

If the character is simply communicating with or
accessing non-local networks, an appropriate time
lag must be introduced between communications











and actions. The effects of this lag are largely up
to the gamemaster, as fitting current distances and
other factors.


ACCESSING MULTIPLE DEVICES


Meshed characters may connect to and interact with
numerous devices, networks, and services simulta-
neously. There is no penalty for doing this, but the
character may only focus on one system at a time. In
other words, you may only interact with one system
at a time, though you may also switch between them
freely, even within the same Action Phase. You could,
for example, spend several Quick Actions to send a
message with your ecto, tell your spime oven at home
to start cooking dinner, and look up a friend’s updated
profile on a social network. You may not, however,
hack into two separate systems simultaneously.

Note that you may send the same command to
multiple slaved devices or teleoperated drones with
the same Quick Action, as noted above.


The Research skill, (p. 184) represents a character’s
ability to track down information in the mesh. Such
information includes any type of digitized data: text,
pictures, vids, XP, sensor feeds, raw data, software, etc.
This data is culled from all manner of sources: blogs,
archives, databases, directories, social networks, rep
networks, online services, forums, chat rooms, torrent
caches, and regular mesh sites of all kinds. Research
is conducted using various public and private search
engines, both general and specialized, as well as data
indices and search Als.

Research has other uses as well. Hackers use it
when looking for specific information on a network or
device on which they have intruded. Likewise, since
everyone inevitably uses and interacts with the mesh,
Research skill is also a way to identify, backtrack, and/
or gather information on people as long as they have
not hidden their identity, worked anonymously, or
covered their identity with a shroud of disinformation.


SEARCH CHALLENGES


Due to the sheer amount of data available, finding
what you’re looking for may sometimes seem a
daunting task. Thankfully, information is fairly well
organized, thanks to the hard work of “spider” Als
that cruise the mesh and constantly update data and
search indices. Additionally, information on the mesh
is tagged with semantics, meaning that it’s presented
with code that allows a machine to understand the
context of that information as well as a human reader
would. This helps Als and search software correlate
data more efficiently. Finding the data is usually not as
difficult as analyzing it and understanding it. Locating
specialized or hidden info or correlating data from
multiple sources is usually the real challenge.
Perhaps a larger issue is the amount of incorrect
data and misinformation online. Some data is simply





wrong (mistakes happen) or outdated, but the nature
of the mesh means that such things can linger on for
years and even propagate far and wide as they are
circulated without fact-checking. Likewise, given
the amount of transparency in modern society, some
entities actively engage in disinformation spreading
in order to clutter the mesh with enough falsehoods
that the truth is hidden. Two factors help to combat
this, the first being that data sources themselves have
their own reputation scores so that untrustworthy
or disreputable sources can be identified and ranked
lower in search results. Second, many archives take


SEARCH CAPABILITIES


Online research in Eclipse Phase is not the same
as just googling something. Here are five ways in
which it is vastly improved:

Pattern Recognition: Biometrics and other forms
of pattern recognition are efficient and intelligent.
hl Wu alo) ao) ay Yam oleys:J] 0] (wacom aUlalmlaat-le(-ma-reelelaliarela
searches (in real time, via all available spimes
and sensor feeds) but to search for patterns such
as gait, sounds, colors, emotive displays, traffic,
crowd movement, etc. Kinesics and behavioral
analysis even allow sensor searches for people
exhibiting certain behavioral patterns such as sus-
‘olceolUrmrolix-a late pm al-laelerial-ccyme)ar-le lies idle) ar

Vea tele Flt Manco) aaat-id(o)amr-lale mal c- me) alllalsmeelaal=
Vind am alco cel-samel-le-m-)elelUimual-1iare g-r-1d(o)ame-1)n-18-)a[e) AP
Vale mr- (eel -13- aw ©) alo) ome gal =u-Vel-le- Mame) am» ¢-1a0) 0) (=F
will note what gear it was taken on, who took
it, when, and where, as well as who accessed it
o}alifal=yamaakelele|ame1e(elammaat-ue-lor-le- lm sal-hiam el-me-t-FII NY
Yo a] 0) el-re me) mr-lalela\ inal P4-rer

DYN e-M\V Fei a ba) oom Mal omecolanlo)iat-lelolameym-leluraler-laye
oan} elundiate par-1ae ihre mel-lt-Par-lalemele)(e [0] icelel-m elUlelire
sensors enable intriguing correlations to be
ofe-WiVAMMiRe) anime f-he- ma dar-hem tm ealial-vem-lale mee) ir-le-ve mala
the midst of a habitat emergency such as a ter-
ike)akjm ole)anle)iale pam kelan=>,¢-1an] e) (=P sal-mm | Boy m=0Y-1 aYce) al=)
Tame al=mavd(ei alia axeolei ce mm ol-mYer-] al al-1opmmeel eal ey-1a-1emne
data archives to separate out those who have
I alike) ave) im ol-siatem lammaal-mvi(ellaliaar-landar-jamey-lad(@0 pe
Tem aiaat-maandamedales\-mia-leal-llallale mel al-\e.4-1em-ler-Tiarit
(oF-he-] oy- X= oy mmol lanl ial-l/c101) el-rel am alike) aVae-Tavemmmal-lig
ig-yeo) go-to r-(e1d(o) al-W-)al-]\\74-10 ince) Ul ale ier-] mol-Jar-\ulele

Translation: Real-time translation of audio and
Vile (=e Mt MelVZ-llf-]¢)(-Minelaame) ol-\ancele|ceomurslaci-lece lan elec

ola -ter-L-q al ele Ma-WaS(o] alba (er-l alam el-1geclaie-(e[-me) mVar-1t


De lle) e) [=e oN olalr-la\ cll’ AclallaN eat elelatrmcokeclarlamsiee


ations conforms to routines, enabling easy behav-
Ke) =) mm e)a=re [reid cola mam \V/ [OkX=\tun-].<mr-Lo hcl ale-le[-e) ma dal Lace)
anticipate needs and provide whatever is desired


Dry cd al- Mate) aiemantelant-laiar-lateMlamuat-Male]aimcolaic-y<cmm al=
c¥-Va al =i Kole | (omr=] ©) e) | [=m kom [ed (0) alm oVare | gel0] ome) im el-10) 0) (=F
Ue ale- he -ee)are)ga) ecm lace m-velel-] melxqelelexommaar-1.4lale mo) acts
diction markets a big deal in the inner system. M&








——————— - —— : ny = —ee ————S— = me Be be: 4


|
a


ay


fo
ig
a





O
advantage of crowdsourcing—that is, harnessing the


collaborative power of mesh users (and their muses)
everywhere—to verify data integrity so that these sites





are dynamic and self-correcting.


HANDLING SEARCHES


Online research is often a crucial element of Eclipse


cf





research backgrounds and uncover clues. The follow-
ing suggestions present a method of handling research
that does not rely solely on dice rolls and integrates it
with the flow of the plot.


COMMON INFO


First, common and inconsequential information


Cc
Phase scenarios, as characters take to the mesh to





should be immediately available without requiring
a roll at all. Most characters rely on their muses to
handle searches for them, passing on the results while
the character focuses on other things.


DETHILED INFO


For searches that are more detailed, difficult, or
central to the plot, a Research Test should be called
for (made either by the character or their\muse).
This test indicates the process of finding links to
and/or accumulating all data that may in fact be
relevant to the search topic. This test should be
modified as appropriate to the obscurity of the topic,
ranging from +30 for common and public topics to
—30 for obscure or unusual intel. This initial search
has a timeframe of 1 minute. If successful, it turns
up enough data to give the character a basic over-
view, perhaps with cursory details. The gamemaster
should use the MoS to determine the depth of the
data provided on this initial excursion, with an
Excellent Success providing some bonus details.
Similarly, a Severe Failure (MoF 30+) may result in
the character working with data that is incorrect or
intentionally misleading.


ANALYZING THE RESULTS


The next step is not so much accumulating links and
data as it is analyzing and understanding the informa-
tion acquired. This requires another Research Test,
again modified by the obscurity of the topic. If the
gamemaster allows it, Complementary Skills, p. 173
may apply to this test, providing bonus modifiers (for
example, an understanding of Academics: Chemistry
would help research the effects of a strange drug).
Muses may also perform this task, though their skills
are typically inferior. As above, success determines the
quality and depth of the analysis, with an Excellent
Success providing the full story and potential related
issues and a Severe Failure marking completely incor-
rect assumptions. The timeframe for this phase of
research largely depends on two factors: the amount
of data being analyzed and the importance to the
storyline. Gamemasters need to carefully measure out
their distribution of intel and clues to players. Give
them too much too soon, and they may spoil the plot.











Fail to give them enough, and they may get frustrated
or pursue dead ends. Timing is everything.


REAL-TIME SEARCHES


Characters may also set up ongoing mesh scans that
will alert them if any relevant information comes up
new or updated or is somehow changed. This is a task
usually assigned to muses for continuous oversight.
Whenever such data arises, the gamemaster secretly
makes a Research Test, modified by the obscurity of
the topic. If successful, the update is noted. If not, it
is missed, though the gamemaster may allow another
test if and when the topic reaches a wider range of
circulation or interest.


HIDDEN DATA


It is important to remember that not everything can
be found online. Some data may only be acquired (or
may be more easily gotten) by asking the right people
(see Networking, p. 286). Information that is consid-
ered private, secret, or proprietary will likely be stored
away behind VPN firewalls, in off-mesh hardwired
networks, or in private and commercial archives. This
would require the character to gain access to such
networks in order to get the data they need (assuming
they even know where to look).

It’s worth noting that some entities send out Als
into the mesh with the intent of finding and erasing
data they’d rather hide, even if this requires hacking
into systems to alter such information.


OUANMING, TRACKING.
AND MONITORING


Most users leave traces of their physical and digital
presence all throughout the mesh. Accounts they
access, devices with which they interact, services they
use, entoptics they perceive—all of these keep logs
of the event, and some of these records are public.
Simply passing in the vicinity of some devices is
enough to leave a trail, as near-field radio interac-
tions are often logged. This electronic datatrail can be
used to track a user, both to ascertain their physical
location or to note their online activities.


WIRELESS SCANNING


To interface with a wireless device or network,
whether to establish a connection or for other pur-
poses, the target device/network must be located first.
To locate an active node, its wireless radio transmis-
sions must be detected. Most wireless devices auto-
matically scan for other devices in range (see Radio
and Sensor Ranges, p. 299) as a matter of course, so
no test is required. This means that it’s trivial for any
character to pull up a list of the wireless devices and
networks around them, along with associated mesh
IDs. Likewise, a muse or device can be instructed to
alert the user when a new signal (or a specific user)
comes into range.


Ot a tee


TSE ee el






i


Detecting stealthed signals (p. 252), however, is a
bit more challenging. To detect a stealthed signal, the
scanning party must actively search for such signals,
taking a Complex Action and making an Interfacing
Test with a -30 modifier. If successful, they detect the
hidden emissions. If the character aiming for stealth
engages in active countermeasures, also requiring a
Complex Action, then an Opposed Interfacing Test is
called for (with the -30 modifier still applying to the
scanning party).

For covert devices that are only transmitting in
short bursts, wireless detection is only possible during
the short period the burst transmission is being made.


PHYSICAL TRACKING


Many users willingly allow themselves to be physi-
cally tracked via the mesh. To them, this is a useful
feature—it allows their friends to find them, their
loved ones to know where they are, and for authori-


ties to come to their aid in the event of some emer- ~~.


gency. Finding their location is simply a matter
of looking them up in the local directory, no test
required (assuming you know who they are). Mesh
positioning is accurate to within 5 meters. Once
located, the position of the target can be monitored as
they move as long as they maintain an active wireless
connection to the mesh.


TRACKING BY MESH ID


An unknown user’s physical location can also be
tracked via their online mesh activity—or more
specifically, by their mesh ID (p. 246). Network
security will often trace intruders this way and then
dispatch security squads to bring them in. To track
an unknown user by their mesh ID alone requires a
Research Test. If successful, they have been tracked to
their current physical location (if still online) or last
point of interaction with the mesh. If the character is
in Privacy Mode, (p. 252), a —30 modifier applies.


TRACKING BY BIOMETRICS


Given the existence of so many spimes and public
cameras and sensors, people may also be tracked
by their facial profile alone using facial recogni-
tion software. This software scans accessible video
feeds and attempts to match it to a photo of the
target. Given the sheer volume of cameras, however,
and the typical range of false-positives and false-
negatives, finding the target often boils down to
luck. Priority can be given to cameras monitoring
major thoroughfares, to narrow the search, but this
risks missing the target if they avoid heavy-traffic
areas. The success of searches of this nature is best
left to gamemaster fiat, but a Research Test can also
be called for, modified appropriately by the range of
the area being watched, whenever there is a chance
the target may be spotted.

Other biometric signatures may also be used for
tracking this way, though these are usually less
available than cameras: thermal signatures (requires
























SYNOPSIS

WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


MIND HACKS
THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE















infrared cameras), walking gait, scent (requires
olfactory sensors), DNA (requires DNA scanners),
etc. Each biometric scan requires a separate type
of software.


DIGITAL ACTIVITY TRACKING


Tracking someone’s online activities (meshbrowsing,
entoptic interactions, use of services, messaging, etc.)
is slightly more difficult, depending on what exactly
you’re after. Gathering information on a user’s public
mesh activities—social network profiles, public
forums posts, public lifelogging, etc.—is handled just
like standard online research (p. 249).


TRACKING BY MESH ID


A more investigative search can attempt to use the tar-
get’s mesh ID (p. 246) as a sort of digital fingerprint to
look up where else they’ve been online. This primarily
involves checking access/transaction logs, which are
not always publicly accessible. This sort of search
requires a Research Test, handled as a Task Action
with a timeframe of 1 hour.


SNIFFING


Wireless radio traffic is broadcast through the air (or
space), meaning that it can be intercepted by other
wireless devices. “Sniffing” involves the capture
and analysis of data traffic flowing through the
wireless mesh.

To eavesdrop on wireless communications, you need
a sniffer program (p. 331) and you must be within
radio range (p. 299) of the target (alternatively, you can
access a device that is within radio range of the target
and sniff from that location). To capture the informa-
tion you must succeed in an Infosec Test. If successful,
you capture data traffic from any targeted devices in
range. Note that sniffing does not work on encrypted
traffic (including VPNs and anything else using public
key cryptography) as the results are gibberish. Quantum
encrypted communications cannot be sniffed.

Once you have the data, finding the information
you’re looking for can be a challenge. Handle this as
a standard Research Test (p. 245).


REMOTE SNIFFING Vin MESH ID


Finally, a mesh ID may also be actively monitored to
see what online activity it engages in. This requires
special sniffer software (p. 331) and a Research Test.
If successful, the monitoring will provide information
on that user’s public mesh activities (how much is
determined by the gamemaster and the MoS), such
as which sites they access, who they message, etc. It
will not, however, uncover anything that is encrypted
(unless the encryption is broken) or anything that
takes place on a VPN (unless the VPN is hacked first),
though it will show that encrypted communications
and/or VPN use are taking place.


PRIVACY AND ANONYMIZATION


Given how easily mesh activities are monitored, many
users pursue privacy and anonymization options.


PRIVACY MODE


Characters who go into privacy mode hide their online
presence and activities from others to a limited degree.
The exact settings are adjustable, but typically involve
masking their social profiles and presence to other
users in the immediate vicinity, like having an unlisted
phone number. Privacy mode can also be used to limit
the use of mesh IDs and other data in access and trans-
action logs, applying a —30 modifier to attempts to
research or track them by their online activity.


STEALTHED SIGNALS


Another tactic that can be taken for privacy is to
stealth the wireless radio signals you emit. This
method uses a combination of spread-spectrum
signals, frequency hopping, and modulation to make
your radio transmissions harder to detect with scan-
ning (p. 251). Stealthing your signals is either a passive
activity (Automatic Action, -30 modifier on Interface
Tests to locate the signal) or an active one (Complex
Action, requires an Opposed Test to locate).


ANONYMIZATION


Anonymization takes the issue of privacy a bit further.
The user does not just hide their mesh ID, but they
actively use false mesh IDs and take other measures to
reroute and obfuscate their datatrail. Anonymization
is a necessity both for clandestine operatives and those
engaging in illicit mesh activities.


FALSE MESH IDS


The easiest method of making mesh activities anony-
mous is to set your muse to supply false mesh IDs in
online transactions. Though illegal in many Jjurisdic-
tions, this is an easy task for any character or muse to
do. Multiple false IDs are used, making it extremely dif-
ficult for anyone to tie all of the user’s activities together.

This method makes it extremely difficult for anyone
to track the user’s online actions. Someone attempting
to track the character via these false mesh IDs must
beat them in an Opposed Test, pitting their Research
skill with a -30 modifier against the character’s (or
more likely their muse’s) Infosec skill. This is a Task
Action with a base timeframe of 1 hour, adjusted
higher according to the amount of activity they hope
to track. If successful, the tracker manages to dig
together enough correlating evidence and records of
false IDs to get a picture of the character’s activities
(how thorough this picture is depends on their MoS).
If they fail, the anonymous character has effectively
camouflaged themselves in the mesh.

Actively monitoring a character who is fluctuating
their mesh ID with a sniffer program or physically
tracking them via the mesh is next to impossible as











the continual shifting of IDs and intentional decoys
make it too difficult to keep up.


ANONYMOUS ACCOUNT SERVICES


A number of people—not just criminals, hackers, and
secret agents—have an interest in keeping some of
their affairs anonymous. To meet this demand, various
online service vendors offer anonymous accounts for
messaging and credit transfers. Some of these vendors
are legit business (in places where it is legal), some
are criminals operating illegally, others are hacktiv-
ists promoting the privacy meme, and still others
are hypercorps or other organizations offering such
services internally to their own staff/membership.

The interaction between the vendor and user is
encrypted and anonymous with no logs kept, so even if
the vendor’s servers are hacked, an intruder will not find
any leads. While some anonymous accounts are estab-
lished for regular use, the truly paranoid use (multiple)
one-time accounts for maximum security. One-time
accounts are used for a single message (incoming or out-
going) or credit transaction and then are securely erased.

Tracking an anonymous account is a practical
impossibility and something that only an extremely
resourceful organization employing a systematic and
expensive effort could attempt.


DISPOSABLE ECTOS


Another option for those seeking privacy and security
is to simply use disposable ectos. Using this method,
all activity is routed through a specific ecto (using its
mesh ID), the ecto is used for a limited period (until it
gets hot), and then it is simply discarded or destroyed.


MESH SECURITY


Given the lessons of the Fall and the very real risk still
posed by hackers, viruses, and similar threats, network
security is taken extremely seriously in Eclipse Phase.
Four methods are typically used: authentication, fire-
walls, active monitoring, and encryption.


AUTHENTICATION

Most devices, networks (PANs, VPNs, etc.), and ser-
vices require some kind of authentication (a process
by which a system determines whether the claimed
identity of a user is genuine) before they grant an
account and access privileges (p. 246) to a user. There
are several different ways for a system to authenticate
a user. Some are more reliable and secure than others,
but for the most part, the more secure the method, the
higher the operational expenses.

Account: If you have access to an account on one
system, this may give you automatic access to related
systems or subsystems. This is typical of slaved
devices (p. 248), where access to the master automati-
cally grants you access to slaves.

Mesh ID: Some systems accept mesh IDs as authen-
tication. This is extremely common with most public
systems, which merely log the mesh ID of any user





that wishes access. Other systems will only allow
access to specific mesh IDs, but these are vulnerable
to spoofing (p. 255).

Passcode: This is a simple string of alphanumeric
characters or logographic symbols submitted in an
encrypted format. Anyone with the passcode can
access the account.

Biometric Scan: This calls for a scan of one or more
of the user’s biometric signatures (fingerprint, palm
print, retinal scan, DNA sample, etc.). Popular before
the Fall, such systems have fallen out of use as they
are impractical with synthmorphs or users that fre-
quently resleeve.

Passkey: Passkey systems call for an encrypted code
that is either hardwired into a physical device (that
is either implanted or physically jacked into an ecto)
or extracted from specialized software. Advanced
passkeys combine hardwired encryption with physi-
cal nanotech etching to create a unique key. To access
such systems, the passkey must either be acquired or
somehow spoofed.

Ego Scan: This system authenticates the user’s ego
ID (pmey7 9).

Quantum Key: QK systems rely on the unbreakable
encryption of Quantum Cryptography (p. 254).


TIREWALLS


Firewalls are software programs (sometimes hard-
wired into a device) that intercept and inspect all
traffic to and from a protected network or device.
Traffic that meets specified criteria that designates it
as safe is passed through, whereas all other traffic is
blocked. In Eclipse Phase, every network and device
can be assumed to have a firewall by default. Firewalls
are the main obstacle that an intruder must overcome,
as discussed under Intrusion Tests (p. 255).

Like other gear, firewalls come in varying quality
levels and so may apply modifiers to certain tests.


ACTIVE MONITORING


Instead of relying on authentication and firewalls
alone, secure systems are actively monitored by a
security hacker or a muse. These digital security
guards inspect network traffic using a number of
software tools and applications that flag conspicuous
events. Active surveillance makes intrusions more dif-
ficult, since the interloper must beat the monitoring
hacker/AI in an Opposed Test (see Intrusion, next
page). Active monitoring also includes monitoring any
devices slaved to the monitored system.

Characters may actively monitor their own PANs if
they so choose, though this requires a moderate level
of attention (count as a Quick Action). It is far more
common for a muse to actively guard a user’s PAN.


ENCRYPTION


Encryption is an exceptionally effective extra layer of
security. There are two types of encryption commonly
used in Eclipse Phase: public key cryptosystems and
quantum cryptography.














CHARACTER CREATION





SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS
ACTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS





THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE
GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE











PUBLIC REY CRYPTO


In public key cryptosystems, two keys are generated by
the user, a public key and a secret key. The public key
is used to encrypt messages to that user and is made
available for others to find online. When messages are
encrypted using that public key, only the secret key—con-
trolled by the user—can decrypt them. Public key crypto
is widely used both for encrypting data traffic between
two users/networks/devices and for encrypting files. Due
to the strength of the public key system algorithms, such
crypto is essentially unbreakable without a quantum
computer (see Quantum Codebreaking, p. 254).


QUANTUM CRYPTOGRAPHY


Quantum key distribution systems use quantum
mechanics to enable secure communications between
two parties by generating a quantum key. The major
advantage of transmitting information in quantum states
is that the system itself instantly detects eavesdropping
attempts as quantum systems are disturbed by any sort
of external interference. In practical terms, this means
that quantum encrypted data transfers are unbreakable
and attempts to intercept automatically fail. Note that
quantum crypto doesn’t work for basic file encryption,
its only use is in protecting communication channels.

While quantum key systems have an advantage over
public key systems, they are both more expensive and
less practical. In order to generate a quantum key,
the two communications devices must be entangled
together on a quantum level, in the same location,
and then separated. So quantum key encrypted
communications channels require some setup effort,
especially if long distances are involved. Since the
implementation of quantum cryptographic protocols
is an extraordinary expense, it is usually only adopted
for major high-security communications links.


BREAKING ENCRYPTION


What this means is that encrypted communications
lines and files are very safe if using public key systems
and that data transfers are absolutely safe if using





quantum crypto. Gamemasters should take note,


however: while this may be useful to player characters,
it may also hinder them. If the characters need to get
at something that is encrypted, they’re going to need
to figure out some way to get the secret key’s passcode.
Common methods include the old standbys of bribery,
blackmail, threats, and torture. Other options involve
espionage or social engineering to somehow acquire
the passcode. Hackers could also find some other
method to compromise the system and gain inside
access, bypassing the encryption entirely.


QUANTUM CODEBREARING


As noted above, quantum computers can also be used
to break public key encryption. This requires an Infosec
Task Action Test with a +30 modifier and a timeframe
of 1 week (once started, the quantum computer finishes
the job on its own; the user does not need to provide
constant oversight). Gamemasters should feel free to
modify this timeframe as fits the needs of their game.
Note that quantum computers cannot break quantum-
encrypted communications, only encrypted files.


The art of intrusion lies in penetrating a device’s secu-
rity. The best methods involve infiltrating a system
quietly, without catching a watchdog’s attention, by
using exploits—code glitches and flawed security
protocols—to create a path circumventing the target’s
defenses. When called for, however, a hacker can toss
aside pretenses and attempt to brute-force their way in.


PRECONDITIONS


In order to hack a device, the hacker needs to establish
a direct connection to the target computer system. If
the hacker is making a direct wireless connection, the
target system must be wireless-capable, within range
(p. 299), and the hacker must know the target is there
(see Wireless Scanning, p. 251). If the system is hard-
wired, the hacker must physically jack in by using a





regular access port or somehow tapping into a cable
that carries the network’s data traffic. If the hacker is
accessing the target through the mesh, the target system
must be online and the hacker must know its mesh ID
(p. 246) or otherwise be able to track it down (p. 251).


CIRCUMVENTING AUTHENTICATION


Rather than hacking in, an intruder can try to subvert
the authentication system used to vet legitimate
users. The easiest manner of doing this is to somehow
acquire the passcode, passkey, or whatever authentica-
tion method the target uses (p. 253). With this in hand,
no test is necessary to access the system; the hacker
simply logs in just like a legitimate user and has all of
the normal access privileges of that user.

Lacking a passcode, the hacker can try to subvert
the authentication system in one of two other ways:
spoofing or forgery.


SPOOFING AUTHENTICATION


Using this method, the hacker attempts to disguise
their signals as coming from a legitimate, authen-
ticated user rather than themself. If successful, the
system is fooled by this masquerade, accepting the
hacker’s commands and activity as if they came from
a legitimate user. Spoofing is more difficult to pull off,
but is very effective when it works.

To spoof a legitimate user, the hacker must be
using both sniffer and spoofing software (p. 331).
The hacker must then monitor a connection between
the legitimate user and the target system and succeed
in an Infosec Test to sniff the traffic between them
(p. 252). Apply a -20 modifier if the user has secu-
rity account privileges, —30 if they have admin rights
(p. 246). If the connection is encrypted, this will fail
unless the hacker has the encryption key.

Armed with this data, the hacker then uses it to
disguise their signals. This requires an Infosec Test,
modified by the quality of the system’s firewall and
the hacker’s spoofing program. If successful, com-
munications sent by the hacker are treated as coming
from the legitimate user.


FORGING AUTHENTICATION


Biometric and passkey systems used for authentication
(p. 253) can potentially be forged by hackers who are
able to get a look at the originals. The means and tech-
niques for doing so differ and are beyond the scope of


THE HACKING SEQUENCE


ELLOS
1. Defeat the Firewall


2. Bypass Active Security
a. Hacker Wins with Excellent Success, Defender Fails
b. Hacker Succeeds, Defender Fails
c. Both Succeed
d. Defender Succeeds, Hacker Fails


this book, but successfully forging such systems would
allow a hacker to log in as the legitimate user.


INTRUSION TESTS


Hacking into a node is a time-consuming task.
The target system must be carefully analyzed and
probed for weaknesses, without alerting its defenses.
Depending on the type of security in place, more than
one test may be called for.

Hackers require special exploit software (p. 331) to
take advantage of security holes, but software does
not a hacker make. What really counts is Infosec
skill (p. 180), which is the ability to use, modify, and
improvise exploits to their full advantage.


DEFEATING THE FIREWALL


Lacking a passcode, the hacker must break in the old-
fashioned way: discreetly scanning the target, look for
weaknesses, and take advantage of them. In this case
the hacker takes their exploit software and makes an
Infosec Test. This is handled as a Task Action with a
timeframe of 10 minutes. Various modifiers may apply,
such as the quality of the exploit software, the quality
of the Firewall, or the alertness of the target system. The
gamemaster may also modify the timeframe, shortening
it to reflect systems that are cookie-cutter common with
known security flaws or raising it as fitting for a top-of-
the-line system with still-unreleased defenses.

By default, a hacker trying to break in this way is
pursuing standard user access rights (p. 246). If the
hacker wishes to obtain security or admin privileges on
the system, apply a -20 or -30 modifier, respectively.

If the Infosec Test succeeds, the intruder has
invaded the system without triggering any alarms. If
the system is actively monitored (p. 253), they must
now avoid detection by that watchdog (see below).
If there is no active monitor, the intruder gains the
status of Covert (see Intruder Status, next page). If the
intruder scored an Excellent Success, however, their
status is Hidden (p. 256).

Probing: Players may choose to take extra time
(p. 117) when probing the target for weakness and
exploits. In fact, this is a common procedure when a
hacker wants to ensure success.


BYPASSING ACTIVE SECURITY


If a system is also actively monitored (p. 253), the
hacker must avoid detection. Treat this as a Variable


Results
Taykexx-em F-\).@e-Vad(evam@lemaniialeia=\>)
NVEVal-]0) (=m @)e) ofesx-1em lancesy-\en =<"





Hidden Status/Admin Privileges/+30 to all Subversion Tests (p. 256)


Covert Status (p. 256)


Spotted Status/Passive Alert/-10 to all Subversion Tests (p. 256)


Locked Status/Active Alert/—20 to all Subversion Tests (p. 257)





255





Opposed Infosec Test between the intruder and the
monitor. The outcome depends on both rolls:

If only the intruder succeeds, the hacker has
accessed the node without the monitor or the system
noticing. The hacker has acquired Covert status
(below). If the hacker scored an Excellent Success,
their status is Hidden (below).

If only the monitor succeeds, the hacking attempt
is spotted and the monitor may immediately lock the
hacker out of the system before they manage to fully
break in. The intruder may try again, but the monitor
will be vigilant for further intrusions.

If both succeed, the intruder gains access but the
monitor is aware that something strange is going on.
The hacker acquires Spotted status.

If both fail, continue to make the same test on each
of the hacker’s Action Phases, until one or both succeed.


INTRUDER STATUS


Intruder status is a simple way of measuring an
invader’s situation when they are intruding upon
a system. This status has an impact on whether the
hacker has caught any attention or if they managed
to remain unobtrusive. Status is first determined when
the intruder access the system, though it may change
according to events.

Note that intruder status is a separate matter
from account access privileges (p. 246). The latter
represents what a user can legally do on a system.
The former indicates how aware the system is of the
hacker’s true nature as an intruder.


HIDDEN


An intruder with Hidden status has managed to
silently sneak into the system without anyone notic-
ing. The system’s security is totally unaware of their


presence and may not act against them. In this case,


the hacker is not using an account so much as they
are exploiting a flaw in the system that grants them
a nebulous, behind-the-scenes sort of presence in the
system. The hacker effectively has admin access rights,
but does not show up as an admin-level user in logs or
other statistics. Hidden characters receive a +30 modi-
fier on any efforts to subvert the system.


COVERT


An intruder with Covert status has accessed the
system in a manner that doesn’t attract any unusual
attention. For all intents and purposes, they appear
to be a legitimate user with whatever access rights
they sought. Only extensive checking will turn up any
abnormalities. The system is aware of them, but does
not consider them a threat.


SPOTTED


Spotted status indicates that the system is aware of
an anomaly or intrusion but hasn’t zeroed in on the
intruder yet. The hacker appears to be a legitimate
user with whatever access rights they sought, but
this will not hold up under close scrutiny. The system











goes on passive alert (inflicting a -10 modifier to the
hacker’s activities on that system) and may engage the
hacker with Passive Countermeasures, (p. 257).


LOCKED


Locked status means that the intruder—including their
datatrail—has been pinned down by system security.
The hacker has access and account privileges, but they
have been flagged as an interloper. The system is on
active alert (inflicting a -20 modifier on the hacker’s
actions) and may launch Active Countermeasures,
(p. 258) against the intruder.


CHANGING STATUS


An intruder’s status is subject to change according to
their actions and the actions of the system.


UPGRADING STATUS


A hacker can attempt to improve their status in order
to better protect themself. This requires a Complex
Action and an Infosec Test. If the hacker has Spotted
status, this is an Opposed Test between monitor and
intruder. If the hacker wins and scores an Excellent
Success (MoS of 30+), they have upgraded their status
by one level (for example, from Covert to Hidden).
Intruders with Locked status may not upgrade.


ZEROING IN


A security hacker or muse that is actively monitoring
a system can take a Complex Action and attempt to
hone in on a Spotted intruder. An Opposed Infosec Test
is made between both parties. If the system’s defender
wins, the hacker is downgraded to Locked status.


FAILING TESTS


Any time an intruder scores a Severe Failure (MoF
30+) on a test involving manipulating the system, they
are automatically downgraded one status level (from
Covert to Spotted, for example). If a critical failure
is rolled, they immediately give themselves away and
achieve Locked status.


BRUTE-FORCE HACKING


Sometimes a character simply doesn’t have time to do
the job right, and they need to hack in now or never. In
this case the hacker engages the target system immedi-
ately, head on, without taking any time to prepare an
attack. The hacker simply brings all of their software
exploit tools to bear, throwing them at the target and
hoping that one works. This is handled as an Infosec
Test, but as a Task Action with a timeframe of 1 minute
(20 Action Turns). The hacker receives a +30 modifier on
this test. Many hackers choose to rush the job (see Task
Actions, p. 120), in order to cut this time even shorter.
The drawback to brute-force hacking is that it imme-
diately triggers an alarm. If the system is actively moni-
tored, the hacker must beat the monitor in an Opposed
Infosec Test or be immediately locked out as soon as
they break in. Even if they succeed, the hacker has
Locked status and is subject to active countermeasures.







INTRUSION COUNTERMERSURES


If an intruding hacker fails to penetrate a system’s
delences Mike wmtneveare sopolccmOrmeockcdmsee
p. 256), then the system goes on alert and acti-
vates certain defenses. The nature of the applied
countermeasures depends on the capabilities of the
system, the abilities of its security defender(s), and
the policy of its owner/admins. While some nodes
will simply seek to kick the intruder out and keep
them shut out, others will actively counterattack,
seeking to track the intruder and potentially hack
the intruder’s own PAN.


SECURITY ALERTS


Security alerts come in two flavors: passive and active.


PHOSIVE ALERT


Passive alerts are triggered when an intruder hits
Spotted status. The system immediately flags a visual
or acoustic cue to anyone actively monitoring the
system and possibly the owner or admins. It immedi-
ately launches one or more passive countermeasures
(see below). Depending on the system, extra security
hackers or Als may be brought in to help investigate.
If the intruder is not encountered again or located
within a set time period (usually about 10 minutes),
the alarm is deactivated and the event is logged as
an anomaly. Depending on the security level of the
system, someone may analyze the logs at some point
and try to ascertain what happened—and prevent it
from happening again.

All intruders suffer a -10 modifier for tests involv-
ing a system that is on passive alert.


ACTIVE ALERT


An active alert is triggered when an intruder hits
Locked status. The system immediately alerts the
owners, admins, and monitoring security agents.
Additional security assets (hackers and Als) may be
called in. The system also launches active countermea-
sure against the intruder (see below). Active alerts are
maintained for as long as the intruder is present and
sometimes for a lengthy period afterwards just in case
the hacker returns.


PROSE COUNTERMER SURES


Passive countermeasures are launched as a precaution
whenever an intruder acquires Spotted status.


LOCATE INTRUDER


A security hacker or AI monitoring a system may
attempt to track down the source of the passive alert.
See Zeroi7ie i. pp. 257 -


RERUTHENTICATE


When a passive alert is triggered, a firewall can be set
to reauthenticate all active users, starting with the
most recent. At the beginning of the next Action Turn,
everyone on the system must take an action to log














SYNOPSIS


WELCOME T0 FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE





GAME MECHANICS





ADACTCD CDCATION





skilled security |





back in. For intruders, this means making an Infosec
Test, modified by —10 for the passive alert, to satisfy
the system that they are a legitimate user.


REDUCE PRIVILEGES


As a protective measure, some systems will immedi-
ately reduce access privileges available to standard
users and sometimes security users as well. One
common tactic is to protect all logs, backing them up
and making sure no one has rights to delete them.


ACTIVE COUNTERMERSURES


Active countermeasures can only be launched if the
intruder has acquired Locked status.


COUNTERINTRUSION


A security hacker or guardian AI can proactively
defend a system by attacking the intruder’s source. For
this to occur, the intruder must first be successfully
traced (p. 251). Once this occurs, the security forces
can then launch their own intrusion on the hacker’s
home ecto/mesh inserts and/or PAN.


LOCKOUT


A system that has locked onto an intruder may also
attempt to lock them out. Lockout is an attempt to
remove the compromised account, sever the connec-
tion between the two, and dump the hacker from
the system.

Lockout must be initiated by someone with secu-
rity or admin privileges. An Opposed Infosec Test is
made with the intruder suffering a -20 modifier for
being Locked. If the character defending the system
succeeds, the intruder is immediately ejected from
the system and the account they used will be placed
on quarantine or deleted. That account will not be
usable again until a security audit approves it and





yr sy OF Ee Osa ks =
ip by their muse or another te
erate Infosec skills. Hard netv


me[1i-1ale(-tor- Jaro m tale)aline) c-te lm e)vaa =r)
hackers Cc ava le \ NM f A j





ee fl





replaces the authentication. Any attempt to access
the system from the same mesh ID as the intruder
automatically fails.


REBOOT/SHUTDOWN


Perhaps the most drastic option for dealing with an
interloper is to simply shut down the system. In this
case, the system closes all wireless connections (if it
has any), logs off any users, terminates all processes,
and shut itself down—thereby locking out the intruder.
The disadvantage, of course, is that the system must
interrupt its activities. For example, shutting down
your mesh inserts or ecto means losing all communica-
tion with teammates, access to augmented reality, and
control over slaved/linked devices.

Initiating a reboot/shutdown is only a Complex
Action, but the actual process of shutdown takes
anywhere from 1 Action Turn (personal devices) to 1
minute (large hardwired networks with multiple users),
determined by the gamemaster. Rebooting a system
takes the same amount of time to get started again.


TRACE


For high-security systems, a popular countermeasure
is to track the infiltrator’s physical location via their
mesh ID (see Physical Tracking, p. 251). In most cases,
habitat physical security is subsequently alerted and
forwarded the position to take care of the criminal.


WIRELESS TERMINATION


An alternative to shutdown or rebooting is simply to
sever all wireless connections by shutting down the
wireless capabilities of the system. The system will
lose all active connections, but any intruders will be
dumped. Wireless termination is a Complex Action to
initiate and completes at the end of that Action Turn.
Restarting wireless connectivity takes 1 Action Turn.


"ye
re


oe


=













SUBVERSION


Once an intruder has successfully invaded a device
or network, they can pursue whatever tasks they
are interested in, as fitting that particular system.





Depending on the type of account the intruder hacked,
they may or may not have access privileges to do what
they want to do. If their access rights allow it, the
activity is handled like that of a legitimate user and
no test is called for (unless the activity itself calls for
some kind of test, such as Research). For example, a
hacker who infiltrates a habitat’s security system with
a security account can monitor cameras, deactivate
sensors, review recorded surveillance footage, and so
on, as any legitimate user with security rights would
be allowed to do.

Engaging in any sort of activity for which you





don’t have access rights is more difficult and requires
hacking the system. This typically requires an Infosec
Success Test, modified by the difficulty of the action
as noted on the Subversion Difficulties table. In
most cases this in not an Opposed Test even if the
system is actively monitored, unless specifically stated
otherwise. Failing such tests, however, will result in
a change of the hacker’s intruder status (see Failing
Pests. 25 7p

Examples for different types of system subversion
are given in the Subversion Examples sidebar. This
is not an exhaustive list, however, and gamemas-
ters and players are encouraged to improvise game
elects 1 Case aniction has mot been explicitly,


described.


AUGMENTED REALITY ILLUSIONS


A hacker who has infiltrated an ecto, mesh inserts, or

some other device with an AR interface may inject

different kinds of visual, auditory, tactile, and even

emotional illusions into the augmented reality of

the device’s user, depending on the type of interface

used. How the hacked user will respond to the illu-

sion depends on a number of factors, such as whether

~ they are aware of the intruder (i.e., the hacker has

‘ Spotted or Locked status), what type of interface they

are using (entoptic or haptic), and how realistic the
illusion is.

The best illusions are, of course, crafted in advance,

using the best image and sensory manipulation tools













Senn  ——— ; 3 ——





= —S =


a





SUBVERSION EXAMPLES


In addition to the tasks noted under the Subversion Difficulties table,
these modifiers present some additional example actions.


MODIFIER TASK
Hacking Bots/Vehicles
___ Give orders to drones:
) Alter sensor system parameters, disable s sensors Or yr weapon systems 7
Alter st smartlink ‘input, send false data to Al or teleoperator fi
_ tockot ut Al Or teleo perator, seize co ontrol via puppet sock _ a


Interact with entoptics, befriend everyone i in range, make online
purchases using user's credit, intercept communications, log activity —


Alter social network profile/status, adjust AR filters, tweak sensory
interface, change AR skin, change avatar, access VPN


Block or shuffle senses, inject AR illusions, spoof commands to
drones/slaved devices _


) Boot U user out of AR ey


Open/close doors, stop/start elevators, operate intercom ~


| Adjust temperature/lighting, disable safety warnings, ~
| replace entoptic skin, lock doors, switch traffic timers


Disable subsystems (plumbing, recycling, etc), _ disable wireless lir links, :


Override safety cutoffs


Move/manipulate cameras/sensors, locate security systems/guards/bots —


Adjust patterns of sensor sweeps, view security logs,
_ disable weapon systems


| Delete security logs, dispatch security teams.
Disable alerts


View current status of simulspace, simulmorphs, and accessing egos _


Change domain rules, add cheats, alter parameters of story,
alter simulmorphs, change time dilation


Eject simulmorph, alter/erase character Als





Abort simulation





Hacking Spimes








_-0 Get status report, use device functions
—10 - Adjust Allvoice personality settings, adjust timed ‘operation schedule


| 20 Disable sensors, disable device functions





SUBVERSION DIFFICULTIES


Difficulty modifiers for common computer tasks


MODIFIER TASK


Execute commands, view restricted information, run restricted software, open/close connections to other systems,
read/write/copy/delete files, access sensor feeds, access slaved devices _


Change system settings, alter logs/restricted files
Interfere vy with system operations, alter sensor/AR input OO Oo Oo Oo
Shut system down, lockout user/muse, launch countermeasures at others














SYNOPSIS


ss
=>
=
=
"waco
=?
=>
>
——)
=!)
_
="?
=
y= (


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


available. Such illusions are hyper-realistic. Anyone
making a Perception Test to identify them as fake
suffers a -10 to —30 modifier (gamemaster’s discre-
tion). An eclectic collection of software programs
offer a diverse range of AR illusions.

Hackers may also improvise illusions on the fly,
usually by patching in sensor data from others sources,
though this is more difficult and more easily spotted
(typically adding a +10 to +30 modifier to Perception
Tests). The advantage is that the hacker can modify
the illusion in reaction to the user’s actions or envi-
ronmental factors on the fly. AR illusion software,
however, also offers some template illusions that can
be modified and controlled in real-time via a con-
nected interface.

Whenever a user is bombarded with AR illusions, the
gamemaster should make a secret Perception Test to
see if they spot the deception. Even if they do, however,
the character may still react to them. Almost anyone
will duck when they see an object suddenly flying at
their face, as their body reacts on its own before the
brain comprehends that it’s an illusion and not a threat.

Aside from their deceptive value, illusions can be
used to distract users or otherwise impair their per-
ceptive faculties. For example, dark illusory clouds
can obscure vision, ear-wrenching high-volume noises
can make people cringe, and a persistent tickling
sensation might drive anyone crazy. Such effects can
apply a -10 to -30 modifier to Perception Tests and
other actions, but the user can also adjust their filters
and/or turn their AR off if necessary.


BACKDOORS


A backdoor is a method of bypassing a system’s normal
authentication and security features. It enables a hacker
to sneak into a system by exploiting a flaw (which can
take the form of an installed program or modification
to an existing program or hardware device) that was
integrated into the system previously, either by themself
or another hacker (who shared the backdoor).

To install a backdoor, the hacker must success-
fully infiltrate the system and succeed in both a
Programming and an Infosec Test (or an Opposed
Infosec Test if the system is actively monitored). The
Programming Test determines how well the backdoor
is crafted and hidden within system processes, while the
Infosec Test represents incorporating it into the system
without security noticing. Modify the Programming
Test by —20 if the hacker wants to have security privi-
leges when using the backdoor, —30 for admin.

Once installed, using a backdoor requires no test to
access the system—the hacker simply logs on as if they
were a legitimate user, gaining Covert status. Anyone
who is aware of a backdoor’s details may use it.

How long the backdoor lasts depends on many
factors and is largely up to the gamemaster. Backdoors
are only likely to be spotted during complete security
audits, so more paranoid systems are likely to detect
them earlier. Security audits may also occur when an
intruder is Spotted but never Locked. Security audits


are a Task Action with a timeframe of 24 hours. The
character conducting the audit makes an Infosec Test
to spot the backdoor. If the backdoor’s installer scored
an Excellent Success on their Programming Test, this
Infosec Test suffers a —30 modifier.


CARSHING SOFTWARE


Intruders can attempt to crash software programs
by killing the processes that run them. This requires a
Complex Action and an Infosec Test. Note that some
software is set to immediately respawn, but this can take
from 1 Action turn to 1 minute, depending on the system.

Hackers may crash Als, AGIs, and even infomorphs
this way, but the process is more difficult. In this case,
an Opposed Infosec Test is made against the target,
who is immediately aware they are under attack. Two
consecutive tests must succeed in order to crash an AI,
three in order crash an AGI or infomorph. If successful,
the Al/infomorph immediately reboots, which generally
takes 3 Action Turns, longer if the gamemaster chooses.


ELIMINATING INTRUSION TRACES


Hackers who have avoided being Locked may attempt
to clean up all traces of their intrusion before they
exit a system. This involves erasing incriminating data
in the access and security logs and otherwise hiding
any evidence of system tampering. This requires a
Complex Action and an Infosec Test, or an Opposed
Infosec Test if the system is actively monitored. If suc-
cessful, the intruder has wiped anything that might be
used to track them down later, such as mesh ID, etc.


HACKING VPNs


Virtual private networks (VPNs) are more challeng-
ing to hack than standard devices. Because they exist
as an encrypted network within the mesh, accessing
channels of communication within a VPN is all but
impossible without the encryption key. This means
any attempt to sniff the VPN traffic is also impos-
sible without the key.

The only way to hack a VPN is to break into a
device that is part of the VPN and running the VPN
software. Once an intruder has access to such a device,
they can attempt to access the VPN. The account the
hacker has compromised may have VPN privileges, in
which case they are in. If not, they must hack access,
requiring an Infosec Test with a Minor modifier (-10).

Once access to the VPN is acquired, the hacker may
treat the VPN like any other network. They may hack
other devices on the VPN, sniff VPN traffic, track
other users on the VPN, research data hidden away
on the VPN, and so on.


SCRIPTING


A script is a simple program—a batch of instructions—
that a hacker can embed in a system to be executed at
a later pre-scheduled time or upon a certain trigger
event, even without the hacker being present. When
activated, the script will undertake a number of system
operations limited by the abilities of the operating








system and the access rights the hacker had when
they implemented the script in the system. Scripts are
a great way for a hacker to subvert a system without
necessarily being in danger when they do it.

Scripts can be programmed on the fly or pre-pro-
grammed. When composing the script, the character
must detail what system operations the set will call
for, in what order, and at what times (or at what
trigger steps). The script cannot contain more steps/
tasks than the character’s Programming skill + 10
(round down). To program a script, the character
must succeed in a Programming Test with a timeframe
determined by the gamemaster.

To load the script, the character must have suc-
cessfully intruded in the system and must succeed
in an Infosec Test (or an Opposed Infosec Test if the
system is actively monitored). If successful, the script
is loaded into the system and will run as programmed.

Once the script is activated, it carries out the pre-
programmed sequence of actions. The programmer’s
Infosec skill is used for any tests those actions call for.

Inactivated scripts may be detected in a security
audit, just like backdoors (p. 260).


Sarlo has infiltrated a security system and wants
to arrange it so that a particular security sensor
deactivates and a door unlocks at a set time,
allowing his team to infiltrate a high-security area.
He creates a script that will activate at 2200 hours
with the following steps:
1) At 2200 hours, disable security sensor
2) Then unlock door
3) At 2230 relock door
4) Then re-enable security sensor
5) Eliminate traces

This script has 5 steps, which Sarlo can handle
with his Programming skill of 70. Sarlo succeeds in
his Programming and Infosec Tests, and the script
is loaded. It will then activate at the appropriate
time. Since Sarlo’s account did not have access
rights to perform these actions, each will require
an Infosec Test using Sarlo’s skill to succeed.


CUBERBRAIN HACKING


Pods and synthmorphs (including some bots and





vehicles) are equipped with cybernetic brains. While this
technology allows a transhuman ego to sleeve into and
control these forms, they carry the disadvantage of being
vulnerable to hacking, like any other electronic device.
Cyberbrains are not wireless-enabled for security
reasons, but they do have access jacks (p. 306) and
are directly linked to mesh inserts. This means that
in order to hack a cyberbrain, the hacker either must
have direct physical access to the morph’s body in
order to jack in or they must first hack into the mesh
inserts and then break into the cyberbrain from there.
Due to their importance, cyberbrains are equipped
with numerous hard-coded security features that





make intrusion very difficult. Apply a -30 modifier
to all attempts to hack into and subvert a cyberbrain.
(Note that the -30 modifier for hacking an admin
account does not apply to cyberbrains.)

Cyberbrains are treated just like other systems for
intrusion and subversion purposes, but since they
house the morph’s controlling ego they present several
unique hacking opportunities.


ENTRAPMENT


An intruding character can attempt to lock in an ego,
preventing it from evacuating the cyberbrain. The
hacker (with the -30 modifier noted above) must
beat the defending character or muse in an Opposed
Infosec Test. If successful, the ego is prevented from
transferring itself to another system.

To fully pen the ego in, the ego character and its
protecting muse must also be locked out (p. 258)
from controlling the cyberbrain’s system, otherwise
the ego could potentially be freed.

Trapped egos are quite vulnerable. They could, for
example, be subject to enforced uploading, enforced
forking, or psychosurgery.


MEMORY HACKING


All cyberbrains incorporate mnemonic augmenta-
tion (p. 307), or digitally recorded memories. A
hacker who accesses a cyberbrain can read, alter, or
delete these memories with a successful Research or
Interfacing Test (the -30 modifier applies).


PUPPETEERING


Most cyberbrains also incorporate a puppet sock
(p. 307), enabling remote users to take over the pod
or synthmorph body and control it via teleoperation
or jamming (p. 196). This allows a hacker to seize
control of the body and manipulate it remotely. To do
so, the hacker must take a Complex Action and beat
the defending character or muse in an Opposed Infosec
Test; the hacker suffers the —-30 modifier noted above.

A defender who is not locked out may continue
to fight for control of the morph, using a Complex
Action. In this case, another Opposed Infosec Test
is called for. This can result in a situation where the
morph repeatedly slips control from the hacker to the
defender or perhaps slips into a catatonic state as the
two sides battle it out.


SLORCHING


Having direct access to a cyberbrain opens the possibil-
ity for certain kinds of attacks that are normally infea-
sible due to the strict content filtering that occurs on
the link between the cyberbrain and mesh inserts. One
of these possibilities is scorching—the use of damaging
neurofeedback algorithms to harm the victim’s mind.

In order to make a scorching attack, the cyberbrain
intruder must deploy a scorch program. To utilize a
scorch program, the intruder must beat the defending
Ego in an Opposed Infosec Test. The -30 modifier for
cyberbrain hacking applies to the attacker.

















SYNOPSIS


ss
=>
=
=
"waco
=?
=>
>
——)
_
_
="?
=
=


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


Several types of scorch programs exist, with dif-
ferent effects: cauterizers (damage), bedlams (stress),
spasms (pain), nightmares (fear), and shutters (sensory
deprivation). These are described on p. 332 of Gear.


SHUTDOWN


If a cyberbrain is shut down (p. 258), the morph imme-
diately ceases activity, perhaps collapsing or rolling
to a stop. Pods will appear to be in a coma. The ego,
however, will be rebooted along with the cyberbrain.


TERMINATE CORTICHL STACK FEED


The cyberbrain feeds backup data to the cortical stack.
This is a one-way connection, so the cortical stack may
not be hacked, but the transfer of data may be cut off.
This termination action requires an Opposed Infosec
Test between the hacker (with the -30 modifier) and
the defender. The ego’s backup will not be updated for
as long as the connection remains off.


RADIO JAMMING


Radio jamming is a method of transmitting radio
signals that deliberate interfere with other radio
signals in order to disrupt communications. In the
highly networked world of Eclipse Phase, intentional
jamming is often illegal, not to mention rude.

Radio jamming does not require any special equip-
ment other than a standard wireless device, such as
an ecto or mesh inserts. Jamming can be selective
or universal. Selective jamming targets a particular
device or set of devices. In order to selectively jam,
the character must have scanned the target device(s)
(p. 251). Universal devices target all radio-equipped
devices indiscriminately.

Jamming simply requires a Complex Action and an
Interfacing Test. If successful, affected devices within
range have their radio communications disrupted—
they are cut off from the mesh and may not commu-
nicate wirelessly. Wired devices are unaffected.

Devices equipped by Als will automatically attempt
to overcome jamming, which requires a Complex
Action (transhuman users may also do the same). In
this case, a Variable Opposed Test is made between
the jammer and defender. If the jammer wins, all com-
munications are blocked; if the defender wins, they
are unaffected. If both parties succeed, the defender’s
communications are impacted but not completely cut
off. The gamemaster decides how much information
the defender can get through and how this situation
affects mesh use.


JAMMING RADAR


Jamming can also be used to interfere with radar. If
the jammer makes a successful Interface Test, the
radar suffers interference, imposing a —30 modifier on
all sensor-related tests. The entity operating the radar
may attempt to overcome this interference by beating
the jammer in an Opposed Interface Test.


SIMULS PACES


Simulspaces are virtual reality environments where
the resolution advances beyond realistic high defini-
tion and into the hyper-real. The environments they
create are comprehensive and authentic illusions, from
aspects like lighting, day or lunar cycles, and weather
down to minute details and sensations. Jacking into
a simulspace is much like crossing over into a alter-
nate world or reality, which is why simulspaces have
become increasingly popular in entertainment.

While simulspaces usually cannot harm characters
immersed in them as the sensory algorithms are
not intended to be offensive programs or routines,
experiences in simulspaces can have a strong psy-
chological impact on an ego, as the simulation is as
close to reality as you can get. A character who is
“physically” tortured within a simulspace will not
be physically harmed, but the mental stress of the
experience might still be sufficient to cause perma-
nent traumas.


SIMUL MORPHS


Characters access simulspace using an avatar-like
persona called a simulmorph. This simulmorph is
created by the simulspace, based on the domain rules
of the simulation and certain characteristics of the
morph or ego accessing the simulation. Depending on
the simulation, this simulmorph may be customizable
to varying degrees.

While interacting with the simulation, treat simul-
morphs as basic infomorphs for all rules purposes,
even if the egos are still possessing another morph
body in reality.

When accessing a simulspace, muses are usually
not transferred into the simulation, though they
can potentially come along if domain rules permit
it. In this case, muses are treated as separate char-
acters within the simulspace with their own simul-
morph body.

Depending on the role a simulspace is intended to
play in the story, the gamemaster may want to invent
“physical stats” for the simulmorph bodies, especially
if the characters are likely to spend a lot of time in
the simulation. These statistics can literally be made
up—it is a virtual reality after all, and anything goes.
Alternately, the gamemaster can simply wing it and
invent any necessary statistics on the fly as the need
for them comes up.


IMMERSION


When a character immerses themselves in a simulspace,
they “become” the simulmorph. The character’s physi-
cal body, typically secluded and protected in a vat or
couch, slumps inertly. While immersed, they suffer —60
on all Perception Tests or attempts to take action with
their physical morph. Characters can enter and leave
the simulspace at will, but toggling in or out takes a
Complex Action.











If the simulspace crashes or the character is otherwise
dumped from it, they immediately resume control of
their own morph as normal. VR dumpshock is extremely
jarring, and the character suffers 1d10 + 2 mental stress.


EATERMAL MESH INTERACTION


A character accessing a simulspace may still interact
with the mesh (and through it, the outside world)
assuming the domain rules allow for it. Any outside
interactions are subject to time dilation issues,
however. For example, in a simulspace running
faster than real time, holding a chat with someone in
outside meatspace is excruciatingly slow, as real-world
seconds translate into minutes in VR. If a character
wishes to directly access other mesh nodes, they must
toggle or log out of the simulspace.


SIMULSPACE RULES


Since a simulspace is an alternate world whose realism
matches reality, characters use their physical skills and
aptitudes as if they were acting in the real world with
few exceptions:


e Though intrusion and hacking can be repre-
sented as another layer of the simulation, there
is no actual hacking within the simulspace (see
Hacking Simulspaces).

e Asyncs cannot use their psi abilities in simulspace,
though such abilities can be simulated.

e Any “physical” damage taken in the simulspace
is treated as “virtual” damage. While virtual
injuries and wounds use the same mechanics,
characters that die in a simulspace are usually
simply ejected from the simulation. In some cases
“dead” characters are brought into a white room
and can re-enter or just watch the simulation,
depending on the domain rules.

e Mental stress or trauma inflicted during a simu-
lation carries over to the ego as real Lucidity
damage. At the gamemaster’s discretion, some
mental stress may be reduced if the character is
aware that they are in a simulation.


DOMAIN RULES


Anything goes in a simulspace, as dictated by the
domain rules. A simulspace may range from approxi-
mating reality very closely to differing drastically.
Gravity might fluctuate, the visual light spectrum
might not exist, characters might heal virtual damage
effortlessly, simulmorphs may be capable of trans-
mogrifying into other creatures, everything might
be underwater—the possibilities are endless, limited
only by imagination. In game terms, this allows the
gamemaster to make up rules on the fly.


CHEATING


As with any good game, simulspaces provide ways
to cheat. Cheats are either built into the simulspace
software or (externally) programmed in by a hacker.
Cheats allow for a character to break the domain rules
in some way. This may be a special power, a way to
alter some environmental factor (like flying), altering
the time dilation, some sort of power-up ability, a
way to get info on other simulmorphs, or a short-cut
through part of the simulation. In game terms, cheats
might provide bonus modifiers to certain skill or stat
tests made by a simulmorph. Cheating is usually for-
bidden. Players who cheat in a simulspace game and
who get caught may face eviction from the simulspace.


HACKING SIMULSPACES


Since simulspaces are complex virtual environments
and often run on time dilation, hackers cannot hack
them in a normal manner when they participate in the
simulation. There are ways to affect and influence the
simulation from within, but the degree of subversion
that is achievable is limited. For this reason, hackers
rarely enter into VR to hack. Hacking into the exter-
nal system running a simulspace is just like breaking
into any other system. Use all of the standard rules for
intrusion and subversion.


MEDDLING FROM THE INSIDE


Within a simulspace, a hacker’s only choice for inter-
acting with the VR controls is through the standard














HACKING SIMULSPACE FROM WITHIN


Analyze simulation parameters, view domain rules, shape appearance of simulmorph, switch simulmorph character or morph type


Change probability of test outcomes, become invisible (“ out of game”) to others


Interfere with simulation (e. g., make it rain, generate earthquakes), generate items, ignore domain rules,


kill or lockout other simulmorphs


Go into god mode, command simulated characters, take over the simulation





interface that any simulmorph can pull up. Typically
used for standard user features like adjusting your
simulmorph or chatting with or checking the status
of other users, a clever hacker might find some ways
to subvert the system. Such options are usually limited,
however, as a number of system controls and processes
cannot be accessed and manipulated from the inside.

Most of the hacker’s options are going to involve
meddling with the simulation and its specific domain
rules or possibly gaining access to cheats. To make a
change requires a successful Interface Test. Ultimately
the gamemaster decides what the hacker can and
cannot get away with, based on the limitations of that
particular simulspace.

Most simulspaces are monitored to prevent cheat-
ing and abuse, though the monitors are typically
pre-occupied with maintaining the simulspace as a
whole, dealing with other users, etc. At the gamemas-
ter’s discretion, such a monitor might get to make an
Interface Test (possibly with a modifier for distrac-
tion) to notice the hacker’s efforts.


Als AND MUSES


Als are sentient but specialized programs. Like other
software, they must be run on a computerized system.
Most AIs are run on bots, vehicles, and other com-
puterized devices where they can assist transhuman
users or operate the machine themselves. They are also














commonly used to actively monitor computer systems
against intrusion attempts. Muses are Als that special-
ize as personal companions, always at a character’s
virtual side ever since they were a child.

Sample Als and muses can be found on p. 332 of Gear.


Al LIMITATIONS


Als feature a number of built-in restrictions and limita-
tions. To start with, they can be loaded in the cyberbrains
of pods and synthmorphs, but they may not be down-
loaded into biomorph brains. As software, they use the
same rules as other software and may be shut down,
restarted, copied, erased, stored as inert data, infected
with viruses, and reprogrammed. Due to their size and
complexity, only one AI (or infomorph) may be run ona
personal computer at a time (see Computer Capabilities,
p. 247), and they may not run on peripheral devices.

While they possess cognition and intelligence, they
are incapable of self-improvement and cannot expand
their programming and skills on their own. Although
they are not able to learn they do possess memory
storage that grants them the ability to remember and
a limited form of adaptation. Als do not earn Rez
Points, nor do they have Moxie.

Als have aptitudes no greater than 20 but are
incapable of defaulting. If they don’t possess a skill,
they don’t know how to do it. (At the gamemaster’s
discretion, they may default to field skills or similar
skills as noted on p. 173 with a -10 to -30 modifier).


d at Sea ee to their
té (p. 151) as AGI char-






= —_—_— TE
—EE_= ee ——<$ $= ————





=}: — i











They can use skills like any character in Eclipse Phase,
however they may not possess any Active skill at a
rating higher than 40 or Knowledge skill higher than
90—the maximum amount of expertise that their skill
software allows.

While Als are programmed with personality tem-
plates and empathy, they are generally less emotive
and difficult to read (apply a -30 modifier to Kinesics
Test made against them, when in pod bodies). When
combined with non-expressive synthetic morphs, they
are even more difficult (-60 modifier). Some Als lack
emotive capabilities altogether and are impossible to
read with Kinesics skill.

Als do have a Lucidity and Trauma Threshold stat,
and are capable of suffering mental stress and traumas.


COMMANDING Als


Als and muses are programmed to accept commands
from authorized users. In some circumstances, they
may also be programmed to follow the law or some
ethical code. Programming is never perfect, however,
and Als can be quite clever in how they interpret
commands and act on them. In most cases, an AI will
rarely refuse to follow a request or obey a command.
Given that they also usually have a duty to protect the
person commanding them, the AI may be reluctant to
follow commands that could be construed as danger-
ous or having a negative impact on the user. Under
certain circumstances, pre-programmed imperatives
can force an AI to ignore or disobey their owner’s
commands (gamemaster’s discretion).


HOLS AND INFOMORPHS


The term “infomorph” is used to refer to any ego in
a digital body, whether that be an AGI or the digital
emulation of a biological mind (including backups
and forks). The following rules apply to infomorph
and AGI characters.


SUFTWARE MINDS


At their core, infomorphs are just programs and so
they are treated like other software in terms of rules.
They must be run on a specific personal computer or
server (see Computer Capabilities, p. 247). If that
device is shut down, the infomorph also shuts down
into a state of unconsciousness, restarting along with
the device (infomorphs may also shut themselves
down, though it is rare that they do so). If the device is
destroyed, the infomorph is killed along with it (unless


their data can somehow be extracted from any surviv- _


ing components, perhaps resulting in a vapor, p. 274).
Infomorphs may copy themselves, though in some
places this is illegal and in most places is frowned
upon as it raises numerous ethical and legal questions.
For this reason many infomorphs that copy and trans-
fer themself to run on a new device will thoroughly
erase themselves off the old one.

As digital beings, infomorphs have no physical
mind, but it is a simple matter for them to possess


INFOMORPHS AS
MUSES


Taki i=t-(e ey c=) \V/lale e)amU)ale{~1ce(=\V/-)(e) el-\e MaslUL\-cmnKelar-l (6.
eave mae)an)ey-lallo)aiall efme at-1e-\e X=) em aat-\Vm )c-0K=1mm Kem al-\V(om-|
110} | Eum(=xe(e(cve mel (elie-]Mlaitciii(e(slara=m-]mdar-liaei(e(-Manal=isal16
iuaY-\ el o\=We- a -\G] Par- Im of-(@,<-10 10] 0M 0) () [ole] (e-] 10 (oe) am 0) 4
of the character’s own personality. Alternatively, a
character with a ghostrider module (p. 307) could
lat-\icm ole] dame) aaV/lalem-Manlekyom[amear-i| mans aM lacsc] ace lale,


lam iance)aate)a elem lamdal-melalesyiate(-1am aavelel6l(-5


This possibility is very useful for infomorph
player characters, as they can ride along in


ola al=xe) al=mcmm al=r-(e m= late mm ey-]autell ey-le-m lammect-lanme-Nar-)
ViVindalelOimal-t-fellarem-lmaslelgelameymaal-lim@e\ iar


an uninhabited synthmorph, taking up residence in
the cyberbrain (see Resleeving Synthmorphs, p. 271).
They may also download into biomorph bodies
according to standard resleeving rules (p. 270).
Even when disembodied, they may interact with the
physical world via the mesh, viewing through sensors,
streaming XP feeds, communicating with charac-
ters, commanding slaved devices, and teleoperating/
jamming drones.

Infomorphs have a Speed of 3, reflecting their
digital nature and their ability to act at electronic
speeds. If an infomorph sleeves into a body, however,
it takes on the Speed of that morph.


HO] CHARACTERS


Though AGIs were not born in a biological body, their
programming encompasses the full spectrum of human
personality, outlook, emotions, and mental states.
AGIs are in fact raised in a manner similar to human
children, so that they are socialized much like humans
are. Nevertheless, on a fundamental level they are non-
humans programmed to act human. There are inevi-
tably points where the programming does not mask
or alter the fact that AGIs often possess or develop
personality traits and idiosyncrasies that are quite dif-
ferent from human norms and sometimes outright alien.

Unlike standard crippled AIs, AGIs are capable of
full-fledged creativity, learning, and self-improvement
(at a slow but steady pace equivalent to humans). Just
like other characters, they earn Rez points and may
improve their skills and capabilities. AGIs suffer none
of the skill limitations placed on weak Als, using skills
just like any other character.

On an emotional level, AGIs run emotional subrou-
tines that are comparable to biological human emo-
tions. AGIs are, in fact, programmed to have empathy,
share an interest in human affairs and prosperity, and
place significant relevance on life of all kinds. In game
terms, AGIs emote like humans (and so Kinesics may
be used to read them) and are vulnerable to emotion-
ally manipulative effects, fear, etc.


rs
=








BACKUPS AND UPLOADING


Transhuman minds (egos) can be digitally emulated and backed up
into computer storage—a process known as uploading. This allows
them to be restored if they are killed. ll p. 268





RESLEEVING


Uploaded egos may also be downloaded into a new body,










a process known as res/eeving. @ p. 271


Integration, Alienation, and Continuity: Resleeving is not easy.
Adapting to a new morph, the loss of continuity, and/or the remembrance
of death can inflict mental stress. Ml p. 272


EGOCASTING


Rather than physically travel, most transhumans






upload their ego, farcast it to a distant location,


FORKING AND MERGING __ then resleeve (or run as an informorph) at the


Forking is the process of making digital copies destination. Ml p. 276
of your ego, often for multitasking purposes.
Forks may be re-integrated back into your ego later. Ml p. 273











REPUTATION AND SOCIAL NETWORKS


In the outer system, the reputation economy rules, and in the
inner system, rep is a measure of your social standing with your
peers. ll p. 285


LIVING IN THE FUTURE


Technology has changed many other features of fundamental life:


@


~ Life In Space: Habitats, immigration, and space travel. Hi p. 280


NANOFABRICATION


NV EMeclate] me elelecmer-lameremnir-lalvirlemelccre
from the molecular level up via nano-





fabricaton, requiring only raw materials,


blueprints, and time. Ml p. 284 ;
Identity: Your body no longer defines who you are. Ml p. 279


Security: New challenges arise to keeping people out—or breaking in. Hp. 291








ACTIONS AND COMBAT
MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE








GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE








The future setting of Eclipse Phase introduces a
number of technological elements that have a strong
impact on transhuman society. These include backups
and uploading, resleeving, egocasting, forking, nano-
fabrication, reputation systems, space habitats, and
space travel, among others.


BACKUPS AND UPLOADING


The transhuman mind is no longer a prisoner of the
biological hardware on which it originates. Through
various mechanisms, biological brains may be digitally
emulated, allowing people to make a backup of their
minds, including their entire personality, memories,
and skills—a process known as uploading.

The primary use of backups is to ensure the person’s
ego can be retrieved in case of death, in which case
they may be resleeved (p. 270). For this reason, almost
everyone in the solar system is equipped with a corti-
cal stack (p. 300). Backups may also be safely archived
in secure storage (p. 269) or used to create infomorphs
(p. 265). A person may also egocast themselves across
the solar system as a form of travel (p. 275)).


CORTICAL STACK BACKUPS


Cortical stack implants deploy a network of nano-
bots throughout the brain that take a snapshot of
the mind’s neural state, storing the data as a backup
within the cortical stack. The average transhuman’s
cortical stack backs up their ego 86,400 times per day.
Only the most recent backup is kept within the stack;
older ones are overwritten. Pods and synthmorphs
also can be equipped with cortical stacks (though
Al-piloted bots often lack this feature), though these
versions maintain an updated copy of the ego running
in the morph’s cyberbrain.

In the case of death, accidental or otherwise, a cor-
tical stack can be retrieved from a corpse and used
to recover the character, either as an infomorph or
by resleeving them in a new morph. Cortical stacks
are diamond-hardened and protected, so they may
be retrieved even if the corpse is badly mangled or
damaged. If the corpse cannot be recovered or the
cortical stack is destroyed, the backup is lost.

High rollers, well-equipped brinkers, and others
in dangerous professions often opt for an emergency
farcaster accessory (p. 306) that periodically (usually
every 48 hours, but varying according to contract)
transmits a backup from the cortical stack to a remote
storage facility. This option is quite expensive, however,
and so is generally only afforded by the wealthy.


RETRIEVING f CORTICAL STACK


Most cortical stacks are carefully excised from a
corpse with surgery. In certain circumstances, however,


a character may need to extract a cortical stack in
the field, whether because transporting the corpse is
impractical or because the dead person is an enemy
and they either don’t want them knowing who killed
them or they want to interrogate them with psycho-
surgery in a simulspace.

The process of cutting out a cortical stack is called
“popping,” as a skilled extractor can usually get the
smooth-shelled implant to pop right out by making
an incision in the correct place and applying pressure.
One does need to be careful that the tiny, blood-slick
stack doesn’t slip away once popped.

Popping can be done with a sharp knife and elbow
grease, though it is grisly. Popping a stack is a Task
Action that requires a Medicine: [any appropriate
field] Test with a timeframe of 1 minute and a modi-
fier of +20. Morphs with stacks in non-standard loca-
tions or with anatomical shielding (carapace plates,
etc.) around the stack may incur penalties to this test
at the gamemaster’s discretion. Of course, if you don’t
have the time for a precise extraction, you can always
just cut the entire head off and take it with you.

Once a cortical stack is retrieved, it may be loaded
into an ego bridge (p. 328) and used to bring the ego
back, either as an infomorph or by resleeving.

Living Subjects: Cortical stacks may be excised
from living people, but the process is usually fatal (or
at least paralyzing) as it involves cutting through the
spinal column. If the target is not unconscious or oth-
erwise incapacitated, they must first be immobilized
in melee combat (see Subdual, p. 204). Cutting out
the stack is handled like a Medicine Task Action as
above, but this process inflicts 3d10 + 10 damage on
the target. If the test fails, they still inflict 1d10 + 10
damage to the target. If the person removing the stack
wants to leave the target alive or harm them as little
as possible, they suffer a -20 modifier on the test, but
may reduce the damage by 1d10 per 10 full points of
MoS. Living through the process of having your stack
removed is traumatic; anyone who does so suffers
1d10 mental stress.


DESTROYING f CORTICHL STACK


Cortical stacks have an Armor of 20 and a Durability
of 20 for anyone attempting to destroy them.


UPLOADING


Uploading a backup into secure storage is usually
handled with a brain scan at the storage facil-
ity’s clinic using a bread box-sized unit called an ego
bridge (p. 328). When activated, the ego bridge’s sensor
array twists open like a morning glory blossom, reveal-
ing an enclosure with a neck rest that automatically
adjusts itself to morphs with oddly sized or shaped
heads. The neck rest deploys millions of specialized










nanobots into the brain and central nervous system.
The petals are full of sensors that image the brain using
a combination of MRI, sonogram, and positional infor-
mation broadcast by the nanobot swarm in the morph’s
brain. The ego bridge then builds a digital copy of the
person’s brain, which is stored away in the service’s
highly secure, off-the-mesh, hardwired data vaults.

In the case of pods, the ego bridge scans the biologi-
cal brain bits and also accesses the cyberbrain to copy
the parts of the ego residing there. For synthmorphs,
who have no biological brain, the process is much
simpler, as it only requires accessing and making a
copy of their cyberbrain.

In a standard clinic with an undamaged morph,
uploading takes only 10 minutes, 5 with a pod. In





other situations, however, the process may take
longer if the gamemaster so decides. Uploading from
a synthmorph or extracted cortical stack is instanta-
neous. The ego bridge largely operates itself. While
oversight by a medical specialist is a good idea, no
test is necessary.

If an uploading character does not plan to return
to their morph, it is usually put on ice until someone
else resleeves into it. If a new resleeve is not ready
and the uploading character doesn’t want to leave a
potential copy of themselves behind, they can have
the morph’s mind wiped by the nanobots as part of
the uploading process.


UPLOADING-RESLEEVING CONTINUITY


In ideal circumstances, a person who is intentionally
resleeving (p. 270) can arrange for the uploading and
resleeving process to occur without any noticeable
loss of continuity. Though the experience of switching
from one morph to another is still a bit jarring, the
transition itself can be made into a seamless process,
with no gaps in awareness or memory, which helps
reduce associated mental stress.

In this case, during the process of uploading, the
ego bridge is also connected to another ego bridge
and the new sleeve. This connection can even be made

N wirelessly or by farcaster link (with a maximum dis-

~\\ tance of 10,000 kilometers).

| As the mind is uploaded, the ego bridge builds a
virtual brain by copying the morph’s brain bit by bit,

using the data gained from the brain scan. At the same

time, this data is slowly copied to the new sleeve as
nanobots rewire the sleeve’s brain structure (a much

slower process). As the transfer occurs, the nanobots

in the brain sever individual neural connections and
reroute them to their duplicates in the virtual brain,

and then eventually to the new brain. Effectively, the
character’s ego is running partially on the meat brain

and partially on the virtual copy. By the time the
nanobots sever the last of the neural connections in

the old brain, the ego is running completely on the
virtual brain and the new sleeve’s brain. Once the
resleeving is completed, the virtual brain is shut down.

In terms of perceptions, the character, who is awake
during this process, experiences a very gradual shift


ret 5


from one morph to the other. As the process takes
hours, however (or even longer if done via farcaster),
the subject usually entertains themselves with some
AR media, VR, or even XP to pass the time.


UPLOADING AFTER DEATH


It is possible to upload the mind of a person who
has recently died as long as the nanobots have time
to scan the brain before cell deterioration kicks in
too heavily, which takes approximately 2 hours. It
is possible to sustain a corpse for longer by placing
it in a healing vat (p. 327) for nanostasis. Post-death
uploads may suffer integrity damage; see Backup
Complications, p. 270.

Cyberbrains may also be retrieved from a destroyed
synthmorph and reactivated, assuming they are not
damaged too heavily (gamemaster discretion).


DESTRUCTIVE UPLOADING


Though rare, some people engage in a process called
destructive uploading, where the biological brain
is literally sliced apart and scanned piece by piece.
Considered abhorrent and wasteful by most transhu-
mans, “brainpeeling” is practiced by some bioconser-
vative factions who view it as the only “pure” method
of uploading or the only real way to transfer the
“soul.” Such people typically refuse to resleeve, living
out the rest of their lives as infomorphs, quite often
in dedicated simulspaces that are treated as a sort of
virtual afterlife.


BACKUP INSURANCE


Almost everyone, with the exception of neo-primitiv-
ists and very young children, has a cortical stack. In the
event of death, however, a cortical stack alone will not
ensure resurrection unless you have acquired backup
insurance (p. 331) to cover the costs of your resleev-
ing. Going without backup insurance for any length of
time is taking a severe risk. Some jurisdictions (such as
the Titanian Commonwealth) have a practice of bring-
ing everyone back, even if only to an infomorph state,
or at least filing the most recent backup away in dead
storage just in case someone decides to pay to resurrect
them later. Other authorities will simply destroy the
stack or, worse, sell it on the black market to a soul-
trading syndicate such as Nine Lives.

Backup insurance typically includes a subscrip-
tion to an uploading facility, usually requiring a visit
every 6 months, to ensure that backup is held in safe
storage in case of cortical stack loss. People with risky
jobs (construction bot supervisor, hypercorp exo-
planet staff, girl who fights vicious giant eels for rich
jaded audiences, etc.) may back up once a week or
even daily. In the event of a verified death where the
cortical stack could not be retrieved, the most recent
backup is used to resleeve the person.

At the basic level, backup insurance will bring the
character back as an infomorph, at which point they
can access their credit and purchase a new morph.
More expensive versions will automatically resleeve




















> ACCELERATED FUTURE


269 |





___

















you in the pre-purchased morph of your choice. The
exceedingly rich will often have customized clones
(often of their original body) waiting on ice for them.

Backup insurance often involves a missing person
clause, which states that a person will be brought
back if they have not checked in for x amount of time
(a calendar function automatically handled by your
muse) and cannot be located.

It is worth noting that some criminal syndicates
also offer backup insurance at a much reduced rate.
The likelihood that copies of your backup are being
used for illicit purposes, however, is quite high. For
some people, however, what happens to a copy of
themselves is of no concern.


BACKUP INSURANCE LIMITATIONS


Backup insurance is not always perfect. Though insur-
ance providers are required to make a reasonable
effort to retrieve your cortical stack, for many hyper-
corps this is a simple cost-benefit analysis that often
will not work in the character’s favor. If you died in a
dangerous area such as the Zone on Mars, in a remote
area such as the Kuiper Belt, or are simply difficult
to track down (pushed out an airlock somewhere),
odds are against your cortical stack being retrieved—
instead you will be re-instanced from a backup.
Jurisdiction can also play an important role. The
insurance offered by many inner system providers is
automatically nullified if you travel to an anarchist
habitat, gatecrash, break the law, or engage in certain
life-threatening activities like suicide sports or scaveng-
ing in TITAN-infected ruins. At the least, they will
refuse to retrieve your stack in these circumstances.
Likewise, if you struck a backup insurance deal with
a medical collective from an autonomist habitat and
then go and die on a hypercorp station, the hypercorp
is very likely to refuse to recognize the authority of a
bunch of anarchists and won’t hand your stack over.
Even an archived backup and a missing person
clause is no guarantee. A determined enemy could
capture you, pry the backup insurance access codes


from your muse, keep you on ice or quietly kill you,
and then regularly “check in” on your behalf using
the access codes so that the insurance provider
never realizes you are dead or missing. Though this
requires quite a bit of effort, it is often less difficult
than dealing with an immortal opponent who keeps
coming back no matter how often you kill them.

Other dangers also exist. An entire habitat may be
destroyed, taking you, your backups, and your insur-
ance provider’s records with it. A resourceful enemy
might penetrate a provider’s security and delete your
backups or simply bribe the right people to make
sure they get “accidentally” corrupted. Given these
possibilities, the paranoid often make sure to get
multiple redundant backup policies, assuming they
can afford it.


BACKUP COMPLICATIONS


In most cases, backing up/uploading is risk free unless
someone tampers with the equipment. If the character
suffered brain or neurological damage, the backup is
transferred via farcasting, or the upload is made from
a dead character, then the backup may be damaged
due to missing neural information. In any of these
instances, make a LUC Test for the character. If the
test fails, they suffer 1 point of mental stress per 10
full points of MoF. Note that this stress (and pos-
sible) trauma applies to the backup, not the original
character. If the backup is used to re-instantiate the
character, however, then the stress is applied.


RESLEEVING


Resleeving (also called remorphing) is the process
of giving a new body to an ego. Changing bodies
is a normal part of life for hundreds of millions of
transhumans, and it is an even more frequent occur-
rence for people in certain professions. Characters
involved in specialized work may resleeve as often as
once a month. Those who travel frequently may do so
even more often. Also, given the number of infugees





who died during the Fall but have now acquired a
new morph, the vast majority of transhumanity has
resleeved at least once. As such, most transhumans are
accustomed to resleeving.

Adjusting to a new body takes time and a bit of
effort (see Integration, p. 271). Resleeving is also diff-
cult psychologically, as reflected by continuity (p. 272)
and alienation (p. 272).

Once an ego fully inhabits a new morph, the new
morph’s cortical stack needs ten minutes to amass a
complete backup of the ego.


RESLEEVING BIOMORPHS AND PODS


Resleeving takes about an hour in a properly equipped
clinic. In essence, the process works like uploading in
reverse. The new sleeve is hooked up to an ego bridge
that infiltrates the brain with nanobots that physically
restructure the brain’s neural structure and connec-
tions according to the map provided by the backup.
Sleeving takes six times as long as uploading because
the nanobot swarm working as a wet printer in the
template brain needs to duplicate the entire physical
structure of the ego’s neural network. For resleeving, a
“wet” ego bridge is used, meaning that the sleeve and
ego bridge are submerged in a vat filled with nanogel.

Sleeving into a pod only takes half an hour, as their
brains are half biological, half cyberbrain.


RESLEEVING SYNTHIMORPHS


Resleeving into the cyberbrain of a synthmorph is
much easier and quicker, being a matter of copying
the backup into the cyberbrain (an instantaneous
affair) and then running the backup in its virtual brain
state (1 Action Turn). The drawback to synthmorphs
is that they are more difficult to acclimate to (see
Integration, p. 271), they are vulnerable to cyberbrain


RESLEEVING AN N


The gamemaster gre F| MTSE: amount ¢


e)a=yx-)aiew- lame) e)eleladelalie
Xo) salou alo\Vake alelil)ale [smn
something they can wor
In other cases, the é


be a waiting list for:
ions ol-10] 0} [-\el an Kol (oler-} |


hacking (p. 261), and synthmorphs are viewed as low
class in some cultures.


EVACUATING A CYBERBRAIM


Characters inhabiting a synthmorph cyberbrain may
voluntarily choose to evacuate by copying themselves
as an infomorph onto another device. This takes 1 full
Action Turn; see Infomorph Resleeving, p. 272.


RESLEEVING COSTS


The costs involved for the resleeving process itself are
generally subsumed in the costs of the backup insur-
ance and/or the new sleeve itself. Costs for individual
morphs are noted in the descriptions starting on p. 139.
See Morph Brokerage (p. 276) for rules on finding and
acquiring morphs.


INTEGRATION


Getting used to a new body typically takes some time.
The character must become acclimated to the changes
in height, weight, sex, and capabilities, which often
requires unlearning ways of doing things that worked
fine for their previous form. Resleeving in a synthetic
morph or an uplift is also quite confusing at first,
given the drastically different morphologies, change in
limb structure (and sometimes amount of limbs), and
so on. Luckily, transhuman minds are adaptive things,
and this process is aided by the application of mental


“patches” during the resleeving process that give the


character a bit of a boost for using their new body.

An ego in a new morph makes an Integration Test
upon taking control of the body, rolling SOM x 3
(morph bonuses do not apply) and applying modifiers
from the Integration and Alienation Modifiers table.
The result of the test is explained on the Integration
Test table, next page.


GAMEMASTER —-





eee
=





LLataall
cc
—
een
—
Leda
C4
a
<—<
Ce
[Lf
all
Hatha
——,
qj)
<—


I)
~
—_)















INTEGRATION TEST


EFFECT

Character is unable to acclimate to the new morph—
something is just not right. Character suffers a -30 modi-

__ fier to all physical actions until resleeved.













Character has serious trouble acclimating tothenew
morph. They suffer a —10 moditier to all actions for 2 days
_ plus 1 day per 10 full points of Mof.


MH Severe Failure (MoF 30+)







Character has some trouble acclimating to new W morph.
Failure They suffer a —10 modifier to all physical actions for 2
___ days plus 1 day per 10 full points of Mo. _









Standard acclimation period. The character suffersa—10
modifier to all physical actions for 1 day.





Success






No ill effects, Character acclimates to new | morph in in no
more than a few minutes.





Excellent Success (MoS 30+)





Lookin’ good! This morph is is an in exceptionally good fit for
the character. No ill effects; gain 1 Moxie point for use in
that game session only.





Critical Success












INTEGRATION AND ALIENATION MODIFIERS


SITUATION EFFECT
Familiar, character has used this exact morph extensively inthe past +30





Clone of of prior morph a . Se 2








-Character's original morph type (what they were raised with) = #20
Basel i i) trait it (Level | Anne ey eer eer tense 0) unr
“Character hi has previously used this type of morph ee












First time resleeving —10





ie haracter is is an in uplift resleeving in in a non- n-uplift (of their type) body = 10










synthetic 1 morph ,
Sex ¢ Sg (rom last morph) .













Morphing Disorder trait level)








Morphing D Disorder trait (Level a)











Infomorph (does not apply to AGIs) (Alienation Test only) == 20
“Fork ( (Alienation Test only) =) ee ae ee | eee
Man “Morphing D Disorder trait (Level 3) a a: eee





= * ~






Exotic morph (octomorph, neo-avian, novacrab, ‘swarmanoid, etc.)






ALIENATION TEST


EFFECT


Extreme Dysmorphia. The character doesn't like their new sleeve at all
__ and suffers 2 stress points per 10 full points of Mof.


TEST RESULT
Critical Failure


Character is uneasy about the new morph and suffers 1 stress point


Failure per 10 full points of Mor.


Character adapts to their n new wv look well. No ill effects,


Success


Best. Morph. Ever. The new morph j jives perfectly with the character's _
sense of self, and even enhances it somewhat. The character actually
heals 1d10 + 2 (round up) stress points.


Critical Success








ALIENATION


After loss of continuity, the other major factor impact-
ing resleeving characters is alienation. Once the ego
has its new sleeve under control, it’s time to look in
the mirror. The Alienation Test reflects the experi-
ence of coming to terms with a new face, skin, and
brain. For example, transferring to a radically differ-
ent morph (such as a swarmanoid) can be difficult to
grasp. Uplifts often struggle to get acquainted with
the unusual hormonal urges of a human biomorph
and vice versa. While the character’s ego is as it was
in their last sleeve, the brains and neurochemistry of
many morphs may alter aptitudes like WIL or COG.
The effects of this can be frustrating or disorienting.

Every character makes an Alienation Test to reflect
how mentally stressful it is to get a grip on their new
body, rolling INT x 3 and apply modifiers from the
Integration and Alienation Modifiers table. Consult
the Alienation Test table to determine the effects.


CONTINUITY TEST


Perhaps the biggest shock that strikes most resleeving
characters is the loss of continuity of self. This is par-
ticularly true for characters who died. If their cortical
stack was retrieved, they will remember their own
death. If they were restored from an archived backup,
they will not remember their death, but they will have
lost an entire period of their life—all the way back to
their last backup. In fact, if their body was not recov-
ered, they may not even know that they are dead for
certain—there may be a surviving copy of themselves
out there. The driving point in this loss of continuity is
a sort of existential crisis—they are no longer the origi-
nal person they once were. This leads some to question
whether they are who they think they are, or are they
some poor imitation and not a real person at all?

To determine how this loss of continuity affects a
character, make a Continuity Test by rolling WIL x 3.
Every character suffers stress from loss of continuity,
as noted on the Continuity Stress table. Reduce this
stress damage by 1 point per 10 full points of MoS on
the Continuity Test, or increase it by 1 point for every
10 full points of MoF.


INMFOMORPH RESLEEVING


Rather than resleeving into a physical body, a backup
may instead by instantiated as an infomorph, a purely
digital form. Infomorphs are distinct from backups in
that backups are inert files. Infomorphs are backups
imprinted onto a virtual brain template and run as
a program. This virtual brain state must be run on a
specific device and follows all of the rules noted for
infomorphs on p. 265. Infomorphs may copy them-
selves to other devices, typically erasing themselves
from the previous device as they go. Infomorphs that
copy without erasing are treated as forks.

Characters instantiating as infomorphs must make
Continuity and Alienation Tests, just like resleeving.

Infomorphs may be resleeved into physical morphs,
following normal resleeving rules.








| a Ye ——————raaamm


ee


Se












= T —
‘ao | :
I


| wake up with a taste like guava and umami
fresh on my tongue. Last night there was
laughter. We drank quinoa wine, and | was
introduced to people | had never met before,
though | had years of intimate knowledge of
most of them. Half of Illyria Module is curled
naked around me in my sleeping chamber.
Last night we made music with synthesizers,
wood blocks, and a lur. We drank mushroom


CONTINUITY STRESS


SITUATION STRESS VALUE
Backup from cortical stack _ oo -
- Character remembers peaceful 0 or rnot notable death Idi 2 (round down) |

7 "Character remembers sudden or violent death —_ “1d10 a :

Backup. from archive _ Oe —s


tea brewed in water from a rogue comet.
Looking around me as the morning sun
starts to light the far orbital horizon of
Ceres, it appears we had an orgy. Last night
was my resleeving party. This version of
me—me 3.0—is ready for life.

—Zheng du Thierry, Carnival of the Goat #%


FORKING AND MERGING


With all of these backups of transhuman minds on
file and an abundance of mesh space on which to run
them as virtual brains, one might wonder what’s to
stop post-Fall transhumanity from multiplying its
numbers by running additional copies of themselves.
The short answer is: nothing, aside from massive
social stigma and thorny psychological issues. Taking
a backup of a transhuman mind, copying it, and re-
instancing it as an infomorph is called forking. It’s one
of the most useful and still-controversial applications
of transhumanity’s brain science.

There are four classifications of forks: alpha, beta,
delta, and gamma. Though typically copied as info-
morphs, there is nothing preventing a fork from being
sleeved in a physical morph as well, other than legali-
ties and custom.


ALPHA FORKS


An alpha fork is an exact copy of the original ego,
re-instanced as a separate infomorph. An alpha fork
may be created by copying and running an infomorph
(from a backup, infomorph, synthmorph cyberbrain,
or a removed cortical stack in an ego bridge). Alpha
forks may be generated from biomorph brains using
an ego bridge and the same process as uploading
(p. 268). Alpha forks are an exact copy of the char-
acter’s ego with all of the same skills, memories, stats,
traits, personality, etc. New alpha forks must make
an Alienation Test (p. 272), and possibly a Continuity
Test (p. 272) if copied from a backup.

Creating alpha forks is illegal in many jurisdic-
tions, including most of the inner system and the
Jovian Republic. In others it tends to be viewed with
distaste, though there are some habitats/cultures in
which it is encouraged.


BETA FORKS


Beta forks are partial copies of the ego. They are
intentionally hobbled so as to not to be considered
an equal to the character, for legal and other reasons.





Memory ¢ gap greater thano one neday


Not knowing iffhow you died


Uploading-to-resleeve with continuity (p. 269) —


Uploading-to- -resleeve without continuity
Character is a fork


Beta forks have most of the same skills as the original
ego, though sometimes reduced. Their memories are


also drastically curtailed, usually tailored to whatever ~N


task they are intended to perform.

Beta forks are created by taking an alpha fork and
running it through a process known as neural pruning
(p. 274). They are legal and even common in many
places, except for bioconservative holdouts like the
Jovian Republic, though delta forks are more favored.
Beta forks rarely have anything resembling civil rights
or citizenship and are usually treated as the property
of the originating ego. They are commonly used as
digital aids or to represent the original ego when com-
municating with others over great distances.

A beta fork’s stats are determined as follows:


e Reduce all aptitudes by 5 (to a minimum of 1).
This affects all skills as well. Likewise, this reduces
LUC by 10 and INIT by 2

e Active skills have a maximum value of 60.

e Moxie is reduced to 1.

e The Psi trait is removed. At the gamemaster’s dis-
cretion, other traits may no longer apply as well.


Additional changes may apply as determined by
the neural pruning test. Beta forks take 1 minute
to generate.


DELTA FORKS


Delta forks are extremely limited copies of an ego.
They are more akin to AI templates upon which the
ego’s surface personality traits are imprinted. Also
created via neural pruning, delta forks are highly func-
tional (as competent as a beta fork or AI) but have
extremely limited skills and heavily edited memories,
usually to the point of being functional amnesiacs.
A delta fork’s stats are determined as follows:


e Reduce all aptitudes by 10 (to a minimum of 1).
This affects all skills as well. Likewise, this reduces
LUC by 20 and INIT by 40.

e Active skills have a maximum value of 40. The
fork may have no more than 5 Active skills.


110 = 2 (round down)


LLatall
cc
ee
Jasons
——
a
C4
a
<—<
Ce
[Lf
all
Hatha
——,
qj)
<—


i)
~
oS)














SYNOPSIS


=


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





e Knowledge skills have a maximum of 80. The
fork may have no more than 5 Knowledge skills.

e Moxie is reduced to 0.

e The Psi trait is removed. At the gamemaster’s dis-
cretion, other traits may no longer apply as well.


Additional changes may apply as determined by the
neural pruning test. Delta forks take 1 Action Turn
to generate.


GAMMA FORKS


More commonly known as vapors, gamma forks are
massively incomplete, corrupted, or heavily damaged
copies of an ego. Vapors are not intentionally created
and are instead the results of botched uploads, scram-
bled backups, incomplete or jammed farcasts, or info-
morphs/forks that were somehow damaged or went
insane. It is extremely rare for anyone to purposely
create a vapor for anything other than research use,
although they can crop up in some interesting places.
For example, poorly made skill software occasionally
includes enough of the personality traits and memo-
ries of the person the skill was taken from that it can
behave in a vapor-like fashion when used.

Because vapors are anomalies rather than purpose-
ful creations, the characteristics of individual gamma
forks are left to the gamemaster. They should have
some or all of the following: reduced skills, reduced
aptitudes, incomplete or incoherent memories,
negative mental traits, and persistent mental stress or
traumas, including derangements and/or disorders.


NEURAL PRUNING


Neural pruning is the art of taking a backup/info-
morph and trimming it down to size so that it func-
tions as either a beta or delta fork.

Beta forks are created by taking a virtual mind state
that is intentionally inhibited and filtering a copy of
the ego through it. Like a topiary shrub, the por-
tions of the character’s neural network that exceed
the capacities of the intended fork are trimmed
away. In addition to the changes noted under Beta
Forks (p. 273), characters may voluntarily choose to
delete/decrease skills and remove memories.

Delta forks are created by excising the ego’s surface
personality traits and applying them to an AI template.
In this case the ego’s memories are usually excluded
entirely—it is easier to start with a blank delta fork
and feed them the specific memories/knowledge they
need. As with beta forks, characters making delta forks
may voluntarily choose to delete/decrease skills and
keep specific memories. If an alpha fork is not avail-
able to prune, a delta fork can be whipped up from
a biomorph brain with an ego bridge and 1 minute.
Many people sleeved in biomorphs keep delta forks on
hand in storage, to whip up on the fly as needed.

Transhumanity’s grasp of neuroscience extends to
scanning and copying a mind, but the most intricate
workings of memory are still imperfectly understood.
Making precise edits to individual portions of a neural


network (to alter recollections, skills, and the like) is
still a black art. The difficulty with neural pruning is
that taking a weed whacker to the tree of memory
isn’t an exact science. Specific memories may not be
excised or chosen—at best, memories may be handled
in broad clumps, typically grouped by time periods no
finer than 6 months. For simplicity, most beta forks are
created by removing all memories older than 1 year.

When creating a beta or delta fork, the character
must make a Psychosurgery Test (other parties may
make this test on the character’s behalf, representing
that the character is giving them access to prune the
fork appropriately). If the character succeeds, the fork
is created as desired. If the test fails, the gamemaster
chooses one of the following penalties for every 10
full points of MoE. Some of these penalties may be
combined for a cumulative effect:


e 1 additional skill decreased by —20

e Fork acquires a Negative mental trait worth 10 CP

e Fork suffers 1d10 + 2 (round up) mental stress

e Extra memory loss (gamemaster discretion; beta
forks only)

e 1 Positive trait lost


NEURAL PRUNING WITH LONG-TERM PSYCHOSURGERY


Rather than generating forks on the fly, some char-
acters prefer to have carefully pruned forks on hand,
stored as inert files that can be called up, copied, and
run as needed. These forks are crafted with long-term
psychosurgery, meaning that they suffer fewer draw-
backs and the memories may be more finely tuned.

Long-term neural pruning requires a Psychosurgery
Test as above, but with a +30 modifier. Delta forks
take 1 week to prune this way, beta forks take 1 month.
Additional modifications may be made to the fork using
any of the normal rules for psychosurgery (p. 229).

It is worth noting that some people prefer to use
forks of themselves or loved ones rather than a muse.
Likewise, some wealthy hyperelites are known to keep
copies of their younger backups on hand, sometimes
for decades, and re-instance these when their prime
ego has enough skill and experience to completely
outclass its younger selves. Though technically these
are alpha forks, their lag behind the original ego is
comparable in degree to that of a beta fork. This is
rumored to be the method used by the Pax Familae in
instancing her army of cloned selves.


HANDLING FORKS


Gamemasters are encouraged to allow players to
roleplay their character’s own forks. It is important
to note, however, that even with alpha forks, once the
fork and originating ego diverge, they develop onward
as separate people. The events that shape the primary
ego’s personality, character, and knowledge will not
happen—or even if they do, probably not in the same
way—to the fork, and vice versa. The exact dividing
line between an ego and a fork is a central philosophi-
cal and legal debate among many transhumans.












This means that gamemaster should not be afraid
to pull a fork out of a player character’s hands and
make them into an NPC if they start too diverge too
greatly. Similarly, if a fork begins to learn information
that the main character does not (yet) have access to,
it is probably also better to run the fork as an NPC in
order to avoid metagaming.

It is entirely possible that a fork might decide that
it will no longer obey the originating ego and carry
about doing its own thing. This usually only occurs
with alpha forks, who are essentially a full copy
anyway, and as time passes the idea of merging back
with the original ego becomes unappealing. Beta and
delta forks are quite aware of their nature as “incom-
plete” copies and so usually return back home to the





ego for reintegration. In rare cases, however, even
these might make a break for life on their own.


MERGING


Merging is the process of re-integrating a previously
spawned fork with the originating ego. Merging is
performed on conscious egos/forks, transferring both
to a single, merged ego. The process is not difficult
to undergo when two forks have only been apart a
short time. As forks spend more time apart, though,
merging becomes a severe mental ordeal.

To determine if merging goes well, a Psychosurgery
Test is called for (made either by the ego or another
character overseeing the process). The Merging table
lists modifiers for this test as well as the result of
success or failure.

For synthmorphs, merging takes one full Action
Turn. For biomorphs, an ego bridge (p. 328) or mne-
monic augmentation (p. 307) is required to merge,
and the process takes 10 minutes.

The result of the process is a unified ego, whether
or not the Merging Test succeeds. Psychotherapy
(p. 215) and psychosurgery (p. 229) can troubleshoot
bad merges over time.


\\ EOOCASTING
. In spite of being a spacefaring civilization with


outposts throughout the solar system and beyond,
transhumanity makes scant use of spacecraft for
interplanetary travel. Shuttlecraft using a variety of
propulsion systems make regular trips between habi-
tats, planetary surfaces, and moons. But for any trip


MERGING


| Under t: hour |


Memories intact, | SV


gna annnana in


2 hours—1 day Memories intact, 2 SV


1 day-3 days — Memories intact, 3 SV _


3 days—1 week Memories intact, 4 SV.


HAMEL


1 week+ Minor memory loss, 5 SV





ae a= <a





Seamless ego with memories intact from both
Solid bond, memories intact _





THE SELF


Forking and merging have changed the way

transhumanity thinks about the self and what it
means to have a well-integrated personality.

~ While forking is child's play from a techno-

im CoYei(er-] ie- lave) eXo)| al eum dal=¥ ol\\Za alo) (elel(er-] M-lalomvorall-)

T-ai-racme) maleyallarem-Maaliacematt-r-]almaar- im aates-ial ol-ce)e) (-

> cautious about employing forks. Some juris-

(o {eid {o)akm oy-lalm cola diate melunda(e]alance)ar-l)mol0ialaal-vel(e-]

s, while others have severe restrictions. In
aat-Janvmanyd eX-]aee) a om [Ul akxe| (ed (o)alyunce) mi lacie-lala =F alpha
forks are illegal Tavemm (cid {ave mr- Wm e\-1t- mie) a quale ln (0) an
more than 4 hours without merges violates he ==
aakexel=1damel=\Xe-1aler-/aie me) myAeldatca-laldelavar-laldpingurys
laws. Similarly, the Jovian Jum Flavemeldal-1am eller

a _ conservatives ban forking entirely. ——
Es Disposing of unwanted forks is another satoldahy
es In some places, it’s as sumple as Sao


er


ia ott ers, a SORK that doesn’t


term fork oF Giese for periods of


less is an easy task for many transhumans. Many


‘Transhumans view - a bit like sar 21%
century humans viewed drinking and drug use. A
bit Eraight be Se but Xo) aai=xevals) overd: doing 1 it will


pepe |,


itr lerstand the psychological sence ence
nce pe
overusing forks.


longer than 1.5 million kilometers—the distance a
fusion drive craft can cover in a day—people egocast.
Egocasting is transhumanity’s most advanced per-
sonal transportation technology, though only the char-
acter’s ego actually travels. Egocasting combines the
technologies of uploading and quantum farcasting to
transfer a backup (or sometimes even a conscious ego,
see Egocasting, p. 275) over interplanetary distances.
Though egocasting occurs at the speed of light,
egocasting times vary drastically with distance.


|
__Memories intact, (1d10 = 2, round down)— 1 SV
| | Memories intact, (1d10 = 2, round down) SV a
Minor memory loss, (1d10 + 2, round up) SV
Moderate memory loss, (1d10 + 2, round up) + 2 sv : |
_ Major memory loss, 1d10 + 2 SV ~


> ACCELERATED FUTURE


Major memory loss, 1d10 + 4 SV





Severe memory loss, 1d10 + 6 SV |


i)
~J
Ol






SYNOPSIS







WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS





CHARACTER CREATION





SAMPLE CHARACTERS





Egocasting within a cluster or planetary system is
usually just a matter of minutes. Egocasting from the
sun to the Kuiper Belt, however, takes between 40
and 70 hours, and so egocasting all of the way across
the solar system can take even longer.

Once an ego arrives at the destination receiver, it
can be archived, run as an infomorph, or resleeved
as normal.


EGOCHSTER SECURITY


Beaming yourself across interplanetary space is a
mature technology and usually works seamlessly.
Because egocasting uses quantum farcasters, there is
no danger of radio interference cooking the signal and
causing data loss. Normally the entire process is medi-
ated by the character’s backup service, and security
breaches are uncommon.

However, there are several risks involved in ego-
casting. The most obvious is that the character’s
consciousness is transferred as a digital backup file
at the destination. If the egocaster on the other end
is not trusted or the networks at the destination are
privately controlled by the receiver, the character is
potentially putting themself at the mercy of their host.
Most hypercorps consider meddling with a transmit-
ted ego to be a serious breach of etiquette, whereas
autonomist types would find it unthinkably repres-
sive. However, political extremist groups and criminal
organizations in control of egocasters suffer from
fewer restraints.

A more subtle risk is the possibility for hackers to
exploit security holes in the egocaster and its attached
virtual space to steal a fork of the character. This is
extremely difficult to do. It almost never happens
during a normal upload, because the uploading ser-
vices are security conscious to the point of paranoia.
Even so, the forks stolen by such attempts more often
than not end up being vapors, because the intruder
is usually stopped before a full copy can be obtained.








3 a...


DARKCASTING


Characters who want to egocast without the atten-
tion of public officials like Immigration and Customs
must seek out so-called darkcasting services—illegal
farcaster transceivers typically operated by criminal
syndicates and other clandestine groups. To locate
such a service, a character must use their Networking
skill and possibly their reputation (p. 285).


MORPH BROKERAGE


Morphs are a major commodity in transhuman society.
The technology and materials needed to grow new
morphs are cheap and abundant, though they take
time. Cloned biomorphs take at least a year and a half,
even with accelerated growth. Pods, which are typi-
cally pieced together from vat-grown parts, take about
6 months. Synthmorphs like cases and synths can be
produced in a day, whereas more complicated models
can take a week or more. Theoretically, supply will one
day outstrip demand to the point where flesh is free.

Characters have several options for acquiring
morphs when they travel by egocast, suffer heavy
damage, or just feel like a new body. When egocasting,
the most common method for travelers of middling
means is to store their current morph in a body bank’s
secure facility and lease a morph at their destina-
tion. Less commonly, characters may rely on public
resleeving facilities, or if they have the means they
may purchase a new morph outright. Characters who
expect to stay at their destination indefinitely or who
decide to resleeve but aren’t traveling might instead
opt for a trade-in on their old body, leaving it behind
permanently in most cases.


MORPH AVAILABILITY


As noted under Resleeving and the Gamemaster
(p. 271), finding the model of morph you want is not
always easy. While many basic morph types (cases,
synths, splicers) are generally available, characters can









CUSTOmIZzEe! = q
Wank more? We can trick cite taten lange :
ee | ly leuplants anaihieen C(reatments sen hanced vision oa
opediciines: ¢ artistic capiiyatatae designs


View Grito. }


SHES


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GEAR


GAME INFORMATION















REFERENCE











7 RIS

lions biome, mech inserts, anc mental eugmentations

© Pttuteice cane nece for extra protection y,
Uncaentel lia Getty atmesphiertc, underwater, and vacuum eavtrenments

© Puppigettt: for remote contrel operations and jamming

© (tluikipllmbs fer jobs thot cequive extra sets of hands

Detailed (Nerph Specs


o











also locate new morphs using their Networking skills
(see Reputation and Social Networks, p. 285). Certain
morph types are harder to find then others; the
gamemaster should apply an appropriate modifier for
any morphs that seem rare or unusual (for example,
swarmanoids or reapers). Likewise, some morphs may
simply be unavailable in a given locale. Rusters are
rarely available off of Mars, for example, while on
Europa, most morphs are exotic local aquatic varieties.

The gamemaster determines which factions are able
to provide new morphs in a given locale. Factions
will not provide morphs that are unavailable to that
faction as starting characters. If the faction is not
the dominant one in that locale, a penalty should
be applied, ranging from —10 to —30. Despite having
a presence in a given locale, some factions may be
unable to provide morphs at all.

If the character is seeking a customized morph with
specific implants or enhancements, the search will be
more challenging. The gamemaster should apply a

-10 to -30 modifier here as well, depending on the
extent and legality of the modifications sought.


MORPH ACQUISITION


Once a morph is located, the character may call in
favors (p. 289) or pay credits for it. Morph costs are
noted on the Morph Costs table. In the inner system,
morph prices are often inflated by demand in the
market such that the most desirable morph types can
cost a small fortune. Outsystem, prices in rep are more
reasonable but still steep due to population pressures
on life support-dependent outer system settlements.
For travelers and frequent body hoppers, there are a
number of ways to defray these costs.


BROKERAGE AND MATCHMARING


Finding morphs for travelers and the bodiless is a
specialized skill demanding deep social networks and
a flair for negotiation. In general, it’s a seller’s market,
so brokers (or “matchmakers,” as they’re called in
the open economy) act as agents for the person
seeking a body. The Morph Costs table assumes a
10% fee paid to the broker. Characters wishing to cut
out the middleman may reduce cost by 10% but take
a —30 penalty on their Networking Test to locate an
available morph.


CUSTOMIZED MORPHS


If a character seeks to have a customized morph
(with extra bioware, cyberware, or nanoware
implants or robotic enhancements), the costs for
these enhancements are added to the morph’s cost
(if the gamemaster chooses, discount package deals
may apply). Likewise, morphs may come saddled
with positive or negative morph traits (p. 145).
These traits raise or lower the morph’s cost at a rate
of +500 credits per CP for positive traits, or —200
credits per CP of negative traits. Negative traits
typically reflect abuses the morph has suffered at the
hands of previous occupants.


fetes


Positive morph traits


TRADE-IN


For those who wish to leave their old morph behind


permanently, trade-ins on current morphs are an option.


The high demand for bodies means that a buyer is
almost always available unless the gamemaster finds
extenuating circumstances. Morphs may be traded
in for the value shown on the Morph Costs table
(adjusted for any positive or negative traits), less a 10%
physical exam and finder’s fee. This is either paid to the
morph broker in cred or rendered as a favor using rep.


PATRON PROVISIONING


Characters on missions for rich or influential patrons
may have morphs provided for them. Normally such
provisions are made for the duration of a job, although
less commonly the morph itself might be payment for
services rendered. Gamemasters are encouraged to be
creative with such arrangements, though players should


be advised that such bargains can quickly turn Faustian.


BLACK MARKET MORPHS


Black market body traders promise to provide the
buyer with morphs and upgrades of choice regardless
of a habitat’s laws against weapons or implants, in
addition to bypassing standard arrival registration
via darkcasting. Illegal morphs usually come with a
price markup (+25% at least), whereas used morphs
with unsavory backgrounds (and traits) can usually be
acquired on the cheap (-25%).


INDENTURE


Characters who find themselves too destitute to
afford a new morph can strike a deal for indentured
service—a “deal” that is rarely advantageous to the


MORPH COSTS


MORPH TYPE COST


____ Expensive (40,000+)


Allothers a ee


Novacrabs Expensive (3


‘Synthmorphs


Cases Moderate


Synths, Dragonflies = High


Negative morph traits ~200 per CP


Expensive





Pm ACCELERATED FUTURE


I)
~
~








a a





new indenture. Typical contracts require years of


indentured labor—terraforming Mars, herding comets,


asteroid mining, constructing habitats, colonizing
exoplanets, etc.—in exchange for a cheap synthetic
morph or splicer at the end of the term. Gamemasters
may use their discretion in offering such terms, though
in many cases the terms offered will temporarily or


permanently end the character's Career as a free agent.


Hypercorps using indentured labor are notorious for
changing the terms at a whim, extending the service
period, or slamming the indenture with a slew of
hidden and outrageous charges that were not made
clear up front. Characters may, of course, enter into
such service fully intending to grab their morph and
run at the first opportunity, but the hypercorps are
very protective of their investments. Indentures are
closely monitored and tracked, and the hypercorps are
not above sending ego hunters to retrieve a runaway.


PUBLIC RESLEEVING


Some locales, notably Titan, have a well-developed
public resleeving infrastructure intended to provide
a body to anyone who needs one. Morphs provided
are usually unremarkable cases, synths, or splicers
with no Positive traits or optional implants. Anyone
holding citizenship in a locale with public resleeving
may apply for a body. Wait times are between a month
and two years, with Reputation influencing wait times
at the gamemaster’s discretion.


RENTING MORPHS


For temporary visits where an infomorph won’t
do, morphs may be leased rather than bought. The
cost to rent a morph is 1% of its cost per day, plus a
Low charge for resleeving. This cost includes rental


Its, se biosculpting. Instead,
Tccwmxo)aat-idaliate melal(e Ol-mmxe)aat-ieallalemual-imanleci a
y grown or designed.


mi ierestery traits otireHasedad at

expense from the Factors or extracted from
[-)\VAmm ecole) Co Maal -t-] am a al=)

ore specific, such as an


exact Tt ) ae al fo} at= ae their eyateliarl leleye WV


ue it Is ae moms olUiar-lam->.dcidiavem saves olamianr-





insurance (see below). If the rental insurance is waived
(not always possible unless you have a good Rep), the
rental cost may be reduced by half.

Characters who are leasing a morph may also use
their previous morph as collateral. In this case, deduct
the cost of the character’s current morph from the

“rental morph before calculating the 1% cost per day,
with a minimal rental cost of 10 credits per day.


PENAL LEASE


Characters visiting the inner system or Jovian Republic
may be able to lease morphs belonging to prisoners. In
most jurisdictions, criminals are sentenced to terms in
rehabilitative simulspace with a stipulation that the
prisoner’s morph becomes state property during their
term of incarceration. Morphs acquired this way often
have complicated histories but also tend to have modi-
fications useful to Firewall agents. Conversely, charac-
ters who find themselves imprisoned may be subject
to having their body leased out during incarceration.
The effects of taking a penal lease are at the discretion
of the gamemaster. A character may have to pull some
strings with their Reputation in order to lease such a
morph, especially if it has restricted or illegal modifica-
tions. Negative traits, cases of mistaken identity, and
unfortunate encounters with friends and associates of the
morph’s former occupant are among the possible draw-
backs to this type of arrangement. On the up side, penal
leases may reduce costs for both leasing and insuring the
morph, again subject to the gamemaster’s discretion.


RENTAL INSURANCE


Leased morphs must be covered by an insurance policy,
which often restricts the character from breaking the
law or taking the morph anywhere too dangerous or


(ol fo)al-mige)aamye e-1Kel apm darelerelam-\\(-lamiiidalr-[a@-1(-1e-1K-10
growth this takes from 1.5 to 2 years (or6 months
to 1 year in the case of pods). Nevertheless, some al
hyperelites have taken steps to ensure that the |
morph they desire is available at all likely egocast
eaten. =


ss


l-t ine Sroroaes


available, such models can
matter of h hours or days.


ONS Tofsmuaaeleamal antsy


and ean














a OEE






lawless. Characters may purchase hazard insurance that
will cover taking the morph into certain dangerous situ-
ations, but this will double the rental price at minimum.

If a character suffers extensive organic damage or
death while insured, the insurance will cover 80%
of the morph’s cost, meaning that the character is
expected to pay the other 20%. If they cannot pay,
their possessions or their stored morph may be seized
in payment.

If a character violates their insurance policy by
intentionally putting themself in harm’s way above
the threat level at which the policy was purchased,
without first communicating with and rendering
payment to the insurer, the policy may be declared
void. If the leased morph dies under a voided policy
and the character cannot pay to replace it, their pos-
sessions and stored morph may be subject to seizure.

Seizure takes different forms depending upon the
local economy and legal system. In hypercorp space,
it is a straightforward seizure of liquid assets, includ-
ing forced uploading if the character’s morph is seized.
Elsewhere, the character is more likely to end up
owing a lot of favors or taking severe hits to their
reputation, but they are unlikely to undergo forced
uploading or outright physical seizure of their morph.


IDENTITY


Given the nature of resleeving technologies, identity is
a fluid concept in Eclipse Phase. Transhumans are used
to the idea of identifying people by how they look or
even by their biometric data, but this is no longer a
certified method. What you look like may drastically
change from one day to the next. You may see an olym-
pian you recognize, but perhaps it’s been awhile, so
you’re no longer certain that it’s the same person still in
that morph. If you’re sleeved in a popular off-the-rack
morph, there may be hundreds of other cloned morphs
that look exactly like you out there—perhaps useful if
you desire to blend in. Similarly, security services can
no longer rely on biometric technologies. Forensics
may be able to identify an individual morph’s presence
at a crime scene, but proving who was in that morph
at the time is another matter.


COO ID


Identity is, of course, tied to ego, and various authori-
ties have instituted verification and security measures
based on this. Within the inner system, each ego is
given an ID number, which is used to validate their
identity, citizenship, legal status, credit accounts,
licensing, etc. This ego ID is verifiable by the person’s
brain patterns, which remain the same even when
resleeving. When an ego uploads, the uploading
service is required to incorporate this ego ID into
the person’s backup/infomorph. Likewise, when that
person resleeves, the service handling the procedure
is required by law to verify the ego’s ID before
downloading. The ego ID is then hardcoded into the
morph itself in the form of a nanotattoo on the tip of


the person’s index finger. This nanotat can be easily
scanned at security checkpoints to verify identity.

Though efficient, this system is far from perfect. For
one, ID record-keeping is far from standardized and
varies drastically from habitat to habitat. Most do not
share records with each other unless they are part of the
same political alliance in order to protect their citizens’
privacy. For example, Lunar-Lagrange Alliance stations
do not share citizenship ID data with the Planetary
Consortium, though they do share with each other.

On top of this, many identity records were lost
during the Fall, a situation that was undoubtedly
exploited by those who preferred to erase their past or
adopt a new persona. These all make for a situation
where identity records are patchwork at best. Officials
must also rely on the security of other habitats for
ID verification. If a person egocasts to Nectar on
Luna from Qing Long in the Martian Trojans and the
Nectar officials have no record of this person, they
can only trust that the Qing Long officials did their
job when verifying the subject’s ID and background.

To make matters worse, many autonomist habitats
operate without identity checks altogether. Though
some ID measures are still used, both to prevent repu-
tation-system gaming and to be able to identify bodies
in the case of death, these uses are significantly more
lax and few records are kept. Therefore, when auton-
omists and the like egocast to habitats that require ID,
they are assigned a temporary ID for the duration of
their stay (and sometimes any future visits).


IDENTITY VERIFICATION


There are three ways to verify someone’s identity:
nanotat scan, brainwave scan, and checking the cryp-
tographic hash on a digital mind.


AANOTAT SCANS


Special encoded nanobots are used to create a small
nanotat on a person’s index finger. These nanobots
contain encoded information that includes their name
and identity, brainwave pattern, citizenship/legal status,
credit account number, insurance information, and
licenses. Depending on the local habitat laws, it may
include other information such as criminal history,
travel history, restricted implants, employment records,
and so on. This nanotat may be read by anyone with
a special ID scanner that reads the nanobot encoding.

ID nanotats include information on the company
that did the resleeving, so that the data may be
accessed and verified with their records online. The
data on the nanotat is also cryptographically signed
with the company’s public key, meaning that anyone
who checks the data and the signature online can tell
if the data has been altered.


BRAIMPRINTS


Brain scans are one of the few types of biometric
prints that stay with an ego no matter what morph
it is in. They are impractical for most security pur-
poses as they require a scan with a combination


a a aaa ~ :
— ie —_ - = = = —_s $e (a ire _ = ~ ’ _—<—<—1) z


















> ACCELERATED FUTURE


279 |














SYNOPSIS


=


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





electroencephalogram and neuroimaging device,
referred to as a brainprint scanner, which takes
approximately 5 minutes. This device measures the
subject’s baseline brainwave pattern as well as the
subject’s signature responses when they think certain
thoughts or sense certain patterns. These scans are all
but impossible to fool, however, barring hacking of
the brainprint scanner itself, and so are considered
quite reliable. For this reason they are occasionally
used in high-security facilities.

It is worth noting that infection by some variants
of the exsurgent virus, notably the Watts-MacLeod
strain (p. 368), sometimes alters a person’s brain pat-
terns, but not in every case.


DIGITAL CODE


Digital ID codes are often incorporated into backups
and infomorphs. Not only does this help identify who
the backup belongs to, but it serves as an electronic
signature for verifying ID when the backup is to be
resleeved. This digital code typically contains the same
information as the nanotat ID, and is signed with a
cryptographic hash that makes it difficult to forge and
which can be verified online. Als and AGIs also feature
such built-in codes.


CIRCUMVENTING 1D ChEChs


Firewall sentinels and clandestine agents often have a
need to hide or alter their identities. While ID system
are challenging, they are not insurmountable.


FARE [D5


The easiest way to bypass security checks is to estab-
lish a fake ID. Given the patchwork nature of identity
records and the lack of any centralized authority, this
is not very difficult. Numerous crime syndicates and
even some autonomist groups maintain a thriving ID
fabrication business, often with complete histories and
medical covers for implants that might be restricted
or illegal.

These IDs are usually registered with habitats that
are either known criminal havens, have autonomist
sympathies, or are isolated and remote. Though the
ID is actually verifiable and registered with these sta-
tions, the potential shady origins of such IDs is known
to most inner system authorities and so the character
may be exposed to extra scrutiny or monitoring. Fake
IDs may be acquired that are registered with more
respected authorities, but this often requires a much
higher expense or connections to hypercorp clandes-
tine operations.

Black market darkcast and resleeving options offer
fake IDs as a matter of course.


ALTERING MANOTHT (D5


Special nanobot treatments may be manufactured
to erase, rewrite, or replace nanotat IDs. Erasing a
nanotat is easy, but not having one is a crime and
immediate grounds for suspicion in many habitats.
Rewriting a nanotat is also easy, though this means


that the nanotat will fail its authorization online
unless the encryption has also been cracked (p. 254).
Replacing a nanotat ID with a fake one is just as pos-
sible and is part of the process of acquiring a fake ID.


DIGITAL 1D TAMPERING


Digital ID codes may also be tampered with, though like
nanotat IDs this will mean that the ID fails online veri-
fication unless the encryption is also defeated (p. 254).


LIFE IM SPACE


Transhumanity is not just a spacefaring race, it is also
largely space-dwelling. While a substantial portion of
transhumanity inhabits planetary bodies like Mars,
Luna, Venus, and the moons of the gas giants, the
balance live in a variety of space habitats, ranging
from the old-fashioned O’Neill cylinders of the inner
system to the Cole bubbles of the outer system.


SPACE HABITATS


Space habitats come in many sizes and configura-
tions, from survivalist outposts designed to support
ten or fewer people to miniature worlds in resource-
rich areas housing as many as ten million people. In
heavily settled regions of space, such as Martian orbit,
habitats may be integrated into local infrastructure,
relying to some extent on supply shipments from other
orbital installations.

More commonly, especially in the outer system,
habitats are independent entities. This usually means
that in addition to the main space station, the habitat
is attended by a host of support structures, including
zero-g factories, gas and volatiles refineries, foundries,
defense satellites, and mining bases.

Habitats—especially large ones—sometimes have
visitors, as well. Majors habitats are crossroads in
space. In addition to scheduled bulk freighter stops,
they may have hangers-on such as scum barges, pros-
pectors, or out-of-work autonomous bot swarms.

Many habitats have some form of transportation
network. This is most common in large cylindrical
habitats with centrifugal gravity. Common solutions
for public transit include monorail trains, trams, and
dirigible skybuses. Common personal transit options
included bicycles, scooters, motorcycles, and micro-
light aircraft, with larger vehicles being uncommon
and usually reserved for official use.

Most habitats with large interior spaces also use aug-
mented reality overlays to create consensual hallucina-
tions of a sky and clouds, to which most residents keep
their AR channels tuned. One would think that in space,
talking about the weather would have disappeared from
transhumanity’s repertoire of small talk, but the habit
persists—only the weather discussed is usually virtual (if
it’s not real “weather”—solar flare activity and the like).


BEERIVES


Beehives are asteroids carved out with tunnels and
chambers. They are commonly converted from














SSS _ Ls
a S| a
=| EEE ———————— =





asteroids mined for metals or silicates. Beehives are microgravity
habitats and can be quite confusing to navigate without AR aids.
Most beehives are found in the Main Belt or Trojan groupings. Most
are small, but some have populations ranging into the millions, with
massive cavernous microgravity cities.


CLUSTER COLONY


Clusters are the most common form of microgravity habitat.
Clusters consist of networks of spherical or rectangular modules
made of light materials and connected by floatways. Typically
business and residential modules are clustered around arterial
floatways and infrastructure modules such as farms, power, and
waste recycling. Limited artificial gravity areas may exist, frequently
parks or other public places and specialized modules like resleeving
facilities (morphs often keep better when stored in gravity). Arterial





floatways in large clusters may have “fast lanes” where a constantly
moving conveyor of grab-loops speeds people along.

Clusters are most commonly found in volatile-rich environments
like the Trojans and the ring systems of the gas giants (particularly
Saturn). Clusters are rare in the Jovian system because shielding a
cluster of individual modules rather than one large station from
Jupiter’s intense magnetosphere is hideously inefficient.

Cluster colonies can have anywhere from 50 to 250,000 inhabitants.


COLE BUBBLES


Cole bubbles (or “bubbleworlds”) are found mostly in the main
asteroid belt, where the large nickel-iron asteroids used to construct
them are abundant. Bubbleworlds are less common in the Trojans
and Greeks, where crusty ice asteroids predominate. A Cole bubble
is similar in many respects to an O’Neill cylinder, but there are no
longitudinal windows. Sunlight instead enters through axial mirror
arrays. Cole bubbles can also be spun for gravity, according to the
whims of the inhabitants, though the gravity lowers as you near the
poles of the bubble, with zero gravity at the axis of rotation.

Cole bubbles are among the largest structures transhumanity has
created in space, hosting populations in the millions.


HAMILTON CYLINDERS


Hamilton cylinders are a new technology. There are only three fully
operational Hamilton cylinders in the system, but the design shows
great promise and is likely to be widely adopted over the coming
period. Hamilton cylinders are grown using a complex genomic

%s,\ algorithm that orchestrates nanoscale building machines. These
nanobots build the habitat slowly over time, a process more like
growing than construction.

Similar to O’Neill cylinders and Cole bubbles, a Hamilton cyl-
inder is a cylindrical habitat rotating on its long axis to provide
gravity. [wo of the known Hamilton cylinders orbit Saturn in posi-
tions skimming the rings near the Cassini division. From this posi-
tion, they can graze on silicates and volatiles using harvester ships.

None of the currently operating Hamilton cylinders have grown
to full size yet, but estimates say they could each house up to 3
million people.


0 NEILL CYLINDERS

Found mostly in the orbits of Earth, Luna, Venus, and Mars, O’Neill
cylinders were among transhumanity’s first large space habitat
designs. O’Neill cylinders are no longer built, having been replaced
by more efficient designs, but are still home to tens of millions of
transhumans. O’Neill cylinders were constructed from metals mined











SYNOPSIS


rH


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


on Luna or Mercury, Lunar volatiles (including Lunar
polar ice), and asteroidal silicates.

A typical O’Neill habitat is thirty-five kilometers
long, eight kilometers in diameter, and rotates around
its long axis at a speed sufficient for centrifugal force
to create one Earth gravity on the inner wall of the
cylinder. Smaller cylinders exist, though these usually
feature lower gravity (typically Mars standard).
Cylinders are sometimes joined together, end-to-end,
for extra long habitats. A spaceport is situated at one
end on the rotational axis of the cylinder (where there
is no gravity). Arrivals by space use a lift or microlight
launch pad to get down to the habitat floor.

The inside of an O’Neill cylinder has six alternating
strips of ground and window running from one cap
of the cylinder to the other. One narrow end of an
O’Neill cylinder points toward the sun. The opposite
end is the mooring point for three immense reflectors
angled to reflect sunlight into the windows. Smart
materials coating the windows and reflectors prevent
fluctuations in solar activity from delivering too much
heat. The air inside the cylinder and its metal super-
structure provide radiation shielding.

The land in most O’Neill cylinders is one-third
agricultural (a combination of food vats and high-
yield photosynthetic crops), one-third park land, and
one-third mixed use residential and business. O’Neill
habitats have a day and night cycle regulated by the
position of the external mirrors. The business and
residential sections of the cylinder usually alternate
with the park land over two of the strips of land;
cropland usually takes up the third. Bridges cross
the windows every kilometer or so, linking the land
strips. The interior climate, the architectural style of
the structures, and the types of vegetation and fauna
present vary with the tastes of the habitats’ designers.

Depending upon size, O’Neill cylinders can house
from 25,000 to 2 million people.


TIN CANS


Antique research stations and survivalist prospector
outposts often fit this description. Tin can habitats
are only a few notches up from the early 21°-century
International Space Station. Tin cans usually consist
of one or more modules connected to solar panels
and other utilities by an open truss. Deluxe models
feature actual floatways or crawlways between
modules, while barebones setups require a vacsuit or
vac-resistant morph to go from room to room. Food
growing capacity is severely limited and there may be
no farcasters, but fabricators are available, as well as
mooring for shuttles and perhaps prospecting craft.
Tin cans rarely house more than 50 people.


TORUSES


Interchangeably called toruses, toroids, donuts, and
wheels, these circular space habitats were a cheap
alternative to the O’Neill cylinder used for smaller
installations. Like O’Neill cylinders, toruses are
seldom constructed anymore, but many are still


encountered in the inner system, particularly in Earth
and Lunar orbit.

A toroidal habitat looks like a donut 1 kilometer in
diameter, rotating on great spokes. There is a zero-g
spaceport at the wheel’s hub. Visitors take a lift down
one of the spokes to the level of the donut, where
rotation creates one Earth gravity.

The plan of toroidal habitats varies greatly, as many
were designed for specific scientific or military purposes
and only later taken over as habitats by entrepreneurs
or squatters. Many have a succession of decks in the
donut. Most of those designed for long-term self-
sufficient habitation have smart material-covered glass
windows for growing plants along much of the inside
surface of the torus. Toroidal habitats equipped for
farming normally face the sun in a direction perpen-
dicular to their rotational axis, but then use a slow pro-
cessional wobble of that axis to create a day/night cycle.

Toruses were usually built to accommodate small
crews of 500 or fewer people, though some larger
ones exist, able to house 50,000. A few rare double
toruses also exist, like two large wheels spinning in
opposite directions, joined at the axis.


IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS


How characters gain entry to a habitat and what type
of screening they’re likely to undergo depends upon
how they arrive. Some habitats are close to other
settlements, while others are physically isolated by the
vast, empty distances of interplanetary space.

Habitats in dense planetary systems receive most of
their visitors via conventional space travel. Immigration
and customs infrastructure is geared toward receiving
visitors via their spaceport, and the processing of arriv-
als is in most ways analogous to a twentieth century
airport. Isolated habitats, on the other hand, tend to
receive almost all of their visitors via egocast.


PHYSICAL ARRIVALS


Arrivals by spacecraft undergo, at minimum, an ego
ID check, scans to detect pathogens, hostile nanobots,
explosives, or radiation, and an inspection of their
personal effects. Some habitats go farther, including
rigorous secondary screenings using scout nano-
swarms, scans of all electronic systems for malware,
and/or aggressive interrogation of a fork of the subject.
Even autonomist enclaves enforce automated scans for
anything that might pose a danger to the habitat or
any signs of hypercorp saboteur efforts.

Restricted goods vary according to local legalities.
Many habitats, particularly those controlled by auton-
omist or criminal factions, allow personal weaponry
as long as its nothing you can use to blow a hole in
the structure or indiscriminately kill dozens of people.
Others, notably the Jovian Republic and hypercorp
stations, disallow lethal weapons of all kinds, except
for people who have acquired special permits and
authorization (sometimes available by bribing the
right people or pulling favors with rep). Nonlethal
weapons are generally allowed. Other restricted items








may include nanofabricators, nanoswarms, malware
and hacker software, drugs and narcoalgorithms,
certain types of XP recordings, covert operations
tools, and so on. Certain types of morphs may also be
restricted, such as reapers, furies, or uplifts.

Certain habitats may insist that visitors—or at
least the ones they don’t like the looks of—submit to
specific forms of monitoring or surveillance for the
duration of their stay. This might include taggant
nanoswarms, hosting a police AI in your mesh inserts,
or even physical tailing by an armed security drone.
Other stations will require that their visitors leave a
fork as a form of collateral at the door—in case they
commit a crime, the fork can be interrogated.

Finally, though rare, some habitats go so far as to
charge all visitors an “air tax”—a fee for using the
station’s publicly available resources while they are
present. This is generally only common in isolated
habitats with strained resources, and is considered
especially obnoxious by most autonomists.

Some syndicates run a good business in smuggling
certain goods or even people into habitats. This is gen-
erally accomplished through bribed security personnel,
but is also sometimes handled as falsified credentials
that will allow the subject to breeze past security
checks. Such services are typically quite expensive.

For those hoping to gain quiet and unobserved
access, there is always the option of taking a space-
walk and trying to break in through an unattended
airlock. Such attempts are quite often dangerous and
futile, as most habitats have dedicated sensor and
security systems to monitor their exterior surface and
in particular any access points. Still, it is a possibility
for a resourceful team with a skilled hacker, though
armed sentry bots are a particular danger.


ELECTRONIC ARRIVALS


Arrivals by egocast are sometimes interviewed by
habitat authorities in a simulspace before resleeving.
Depending upon the habitat’s attitude toward civil
rights, this process can be relatively reasonable or
quite invasive. A minimal entry inspection includes an
ID check, a brief interview with a customs AI, and a
review of the specs of the morph into which the arriv-
ing ego plans to resleeve. Habitats with draconian
immigration measures may use harsh psychosurgery
interrogation techniques on suspect infomorphs.
Egocast backups have little recourse to avoid this
treatment—station authorities can simply file them
away in cold storage if they choose—so it is wise to
investigate custom procedures before you send your-
self over.

Because many people, particularly autonomists
and brinkers, don’t appreciate this kind of reception,
various uploading services have stepped in to provide
pre-customs resleeving for characters traveling to habi-
tats with suspect screening methods. For often-exorbi-
tant fees, the traveler egocasts into an extraterritorial
substation close to their intended destination, resleeves
there, and then travels to their destination by rocket.


Various darkcast services, normally run by established
crime syndicates, sometimes offer an alternative method
of egocasting in and possibly even resleeving. Darkcast
services are quite expensive, however, and the character
is at the mercy of the syndicate operators. In rare cases,
some political factions or even hypercorps might operate
their own darkcast systems, which a character with good
networking skills might be able to take advantage of.


SPACE TRAVEL


In some circumstances, characters will prefer to travel
physically through space rather than egocasting. In
Eclipse Phase, spacecraft are primarily dealt with as a
setting environment rather than a vehicle/gear to use.
Spacecraft largely pilot themselves via the onboard AI.
Though characters can also take over with their Pilot:
Spacecraft skill, the situation rarely calls for it.


LOCAL TRAVEL


In densely inhabited planetary systems such as Mars
and Saturn, most travel between cities, surface stations,
and orbital habitats within 200,000 kilometers is by
small hydrogen-fueled (or sometimes methane-fueled)
rockets. This form of travel is incredibly cheap, very
fast, and avoids the occasional personality glitches
that crop up during egocasting. LOTVs (lander and
orbital transfer vehicles, p. 348) are commonly used.
Spacecraft leaving a planetary body need to be able to
generate enough thrust to escape the gravity well (see
Escaping Gravity Wells, p. 347).


DISTANCE TRAVEL


For distances of 200,000 to 1.5 million kilometers,
somewhat larger (and more expensive) fusion- and
plasma-drive craft make regular runs. Nuclear electric
ion drives were once used on some of these routes, but
the poor efficiency of these fission systems and the need
for radioactive heavy metal reaction mass means that
they are almost never used anymore. Faster anti-matter-
drive couriers are also commonly used. These ships
lack the thrust to escape from the gravity wells of large
planets or moons, so they station themselves in orbit and
use smaller ships (typically LOTVs) with higher thrust to
transport people to and from the planetary surface.

For distances beyond 1.5 million kilometers, almost
everyone uses egocasting


SPACE TRAVEL BASICS


Spacecraft use various types of reaction drives (see
Spacecraft Propulsion, p. 347), meaning that they burn
fuel (reaction mass) and direct the heated output in
one direction, which pushes the spacecraft in the oppo-
site direction. Travel over any major distance typically
involves a period of high-acceleration burn for several
hours at the beginning of the flight, where up to half of
the reaction mass is spent to drive up the craft’s veloc-
ity. The ship then coasts for the majority of the flight at
that speed, until it approaches its destination, where it
flips over and burns an equal amount of reaction mass
in the opposite direction to decrease velocity.








LLatall
cc
ee
Jasons
——
a
C4
a
<—<
Ce
[Lf
all
Hatha
——,
qj)
<—


NO
o%)














SYNOPSIS


=


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


Though some craft burn half their reaction mass
to get up to the best speed possible, this doesn’t leave
much room for additional maneuvering or emergen-
cies. Many craft therefore only burn up to a quarter
or a third of their fuel in initial accelerations, so they
have some to spare in case they need it. A few tricks
can be used to save fuel and build speed, such as sling-
shotting around the gravity wells of larger planets or
aerobraking in a planet’s upper atmosphere.

Travel times between locations are constantly
changing as various bodies move in their orbits
around the solar system. Within a cluster or planetary
system, travel takes a matter of hours. Within the
inner system, travel can take days or weeks. Travel to,
from, or within the outer system can take much longer,
and is usually a matter of several months.

Most ships operate at zero g, except for a few larger
craft that are able to spin habitat modules for low
gravity. Periods of high acceleration also produce tempo-
rary gravity in a downward direction, towards the burn.

Space is a valuable commodity on board spacecraft,
so room is often tight. Sleeping and personal quarters
are rarely bigger than large closets, just enough room
for a sleeping bag and personal effects. Depending on
the size of the craft, there may be a communal recre-
ation area. The crew tend to only be busy at the begin-
ning and end of a trip, when they must deal with accel-
eration/deceleration and maneuvering around other
space traffic. The rest of the trip they spend dealing
with repairs or otherwise killing time, often by access-
ing XP or VR simulations or playing AR games. While
spacecraft have their own local mesh network, they are
usually too far to interact with the mesh networks of
other habitats without significant communications lag,
so they must make do with their own archive of enter-
tainment options. Many long-haul ships are crewed by
hibernoid morphs, who hunker down for a long nap.


SPACESHIP COMBAT


Combat in space tends to take place over long dis-
tances using massive beam weapons, railguns, and
missiles. It also tends to be nasty, brutish, and short.
Significant damage to a vessel can cause atmospheric
decompression, killing any biomorph crew who aren’t
suited up and strapped down.

For the most part, it is recommended that space
combat be treated as a plot device, part of the back-
ground story that helps create drama and tension,
rather than an event that characters actively partici-
pate in. This is not to say the characters cannot play
a role in the combat or that their actions will have no
effect on the outcome. They may become involved in
damage control, negotiate with hostile forces, repel
boarders, target weapons with Gunnery skill, stage a
mutiny, attempt to hack the networks of approach-
ing vessels, escape out the airlock, hide out while the
pirates sack the ship, or similar affairs. It is recom-
mended, however, that gamemasters steer clear of
space combat situations that could easily lead to the
whole team dying due to a few bad dice rolls.


NANOFABRICATION


In order to create an object in a nanofabricator
(whether a cornucopia machine, fabber, or maker; see
p. 327), three things are needed: raw materials, blue-
prints, and time.


RAW MATERIALS


Raw materials are generally easy to acquire, as most
nanofabricators are equipped with disassembler units
that will break down just about anything into its con-
stituent molecules. Feedstock may also be purchased
(at a cost of Trivial). Many habitats route their recy-
cling and waste products directly into disassemblers.


BLUEPRINTS


Most nanofabricators are pre-loaded with blueprints
for general purpose items: food, simple clothing, basic
tools, etc. Blueprints for other goods may be acquired
in several ways:


e They may be purchased online (legally or on the
black market).

e They may be found for free online (see below).

e They may be acquired with Rep, following the
usual rules for social networking (p. 285).

e They may be stolen (usually by hacking a mesh
site or a nanofabricator containing such plans).

e They may be self-programmed (see below).


Once the blueprints are acquired, they are simply
loaded into the nanofabricator.


OPEN SOURCE BLUEPRINTS


Blueprints for many goods may be found for free online,
disseminated by an active open source software move-
ment. The availability of such plans typically depends
on the local mesh. In autonomist habitats, a simple
Research Test is likely to turn up the open source blue-
prints you need (applying modifiers for unusual items).
In more restricted habitats, open source blueprints may
be harder to find, as they will be securely hidden from
the prying eyes of the authorities. In this case, the char-
acter will need to use their Rep to gain access, bribe a
local hacker group, or do something similar.

Note that restricted nanofabricators may not accept
open source blueprints (see Blueprint Restrictions).


BLUEPRINT RESTRICTIONS


Some nanofabricators are equipped with pre-
programmed restrictions not to accept blueprints for
restricted items (such as weapons) or non-licensed
items (such as black market or open source blueprints).
These restrictions may be circumvented by hacking
the nanofabricator and reprogramming it, following
normal hacking rules (p. 254).


PROGRAMMING BLUEPRINTS


A dedicated character may simply decide to program
their own blueprints, though this is a time-consuming








endeavor. To do so, the character must make a Programming
(Nanofabrication) Test with a timeframe of one week per cost level
of the item. For example, a Trivial cost item takes 1 week, a Low cost
item takes 2 weeks, a Moderate item 3 weeks, and so on. Academics:
Nanotechnology skill or a skill appropriate to the object’s design
may be used as a complementary skill (p. 173) for this test. A fork or
muse may also be assigned to such a programming task.


TIME


Once the raw materials and blueprints are in, most nanofabrica-
tion is simply a matter of time. The exact timeframe to create an
object varies, but roughly approximates 1 hour per cost category of
the item (1 hour for Trivial, 2 for Low, 3 for Moderate, etc.). The
gamemaster may feel free to modify this period as appropriate for
the object.


THE PROGRAMMING TEST


Nanofabrication is typically handled as a Programming
(Nanofabrication) Test. In most cases, this can be treated as a Simple
Success Test (p. 118), with a failed roll simply indicating that the
item has some minor imperfections, or perhaps took longer to make.

In some cases, the gamemaster may call for an actual Success Test,
meaning that failure is more of a possibility. This should only be
done for items that are exotic, extremely complicated, or for which
the blueprints are incomplete or otherwise suspect. This test can also
be made if the raw materials are limited.

The character operating the nanofabricator can make this test or it
can be left up to the nanofabricator’s built-in AI. Most such Als have a
Programming (Nanofabrication) skill of 30 (see Als and Muses, p. 332).


REPUTATION AND SOCIAL NETWORKS


“Once upon a time, there was a planet so incredibly primitive that its
inhabitants still used money. That planet is called ‘Mars.’”
—Professor Magnus Ming, Titan Autonomous University


The conflict between market capitalism and other forms of eco-
nomics is one of transhumanity’s last great culture wars, and it’s
still being fought. Transhumanity’s expansion into the solar system
created myriad opportunities to experiment with new economic
systems. Many failed, but the reputation economies of the outer
system have proven both utilitarian and robust in a way that no
previous challenger to market capitalism has managed.

The reputation economy, sometimes called the gift economy or


Open economy, is one in which the material plenty created by nano-


fabrication and the longevity granted by uploading and backups
have removed considerations of supply versus scarcity from the
economic equation—destroying classical economics in the process.

The regimented societies of the inner system and the Jovian
Junta have used societal controls and careful regulation of the
technologies of abundance on their populations, thus keeping to a


transitional economy system that is largely an outgrowth of classi- ———__


cal economics. No one could get away with doing this in the outer
system. In the Trojans and Greeks, much of the belt, free Jupiter, and
anywhere outward from Saturn, the reputation economy rules.
How did this happen? For one thing, money is a nuisance when
you’re an autonomous member of an autonomous collective whose
nearest three neighbors (each 100,000 kilometers away) are also
autonomous collectives. All of you are almost completely self-sufficient
in terms of material resources. You have a fleet of robots that harvest












AREA


anasUoua Dass )

Bisivs Upsiss) Wlinterests] [Friends] [Full Profile}

anne 77 (isn

vy X
an


Rae EI RAAEA TRAM Se
a =


=


————


i ia


Po Once C SLRS NLA SS LL EA ton a ha SMS Ca aN es


S00 USI UM a hhassao
pe ee | ‘S|

Sadhsiohtany) Razak Activ ItUyl Bub lidRecords

Solerchive Ress po Map Relsttonshities Pees Pell


sng


“SR ee RR





> ACCELERATED FUTURE


285








CHARACTER CREATION











water, volatiles, reactor mass, metals, and silicates. You
have a nanofabricator to make all of your small items,
a community factory for large ones, and a machine
shop where you can build anything else—with help and
advice from an AI with the combined knowledge and
experience of a top-flight engineering team, if you even
need it. You grow your own food.

Money is for people who don’t know how to take
care of themselves. Transhumanity is only a few
decades away from being a mature Type I Kardashev
civilization, having largely mastered the material
resources of its own solar system. A character from
the outer system most likely finds the whole concept
of money an embarrassment.

However, material abundance hasn’t eliminated the
value of certain goods and services. A transhuman’s
lunch might be free, but innovative ideas, new designs,
health care, sex, and dirty work don’t grow in fabrica-
tors. What if you need gene therapy on your morph to
grow infrared sensing cells on your face? How about
someone to assassinate your renegade beta fork after she
set off a hallucinogen grenade at your gallery opening
and kidnapped your boyfriend? What if you really need
a spanking? You call on your social network. If your
network is sufficiently deep and numerous and your
reputation is good enough, someone will help you out.

In the inner system, the reputation economy doesn’t
replace money for the exchange of goods and services,
but it does hold sway over the network of favors and
influence. Calling on contacts, getting information,
and making sure you’re in the best place to see and be
seen all involve calling on your social network.


SUCTAL NETWORKS


Social networks represent the people you know, and
the people they know, and so on. It starts with your
friends and family, spreads out to your co-workers,
neighbors, and colleagues, and expands all the way
out to your acquaintances, from the neo-hominid
waitron at your favorite cafe to the sylph you flirt
with at the club. In the always-online, fully meshed
universe of Eclipse Phase, this goes even further,
encompassing all of the people you’ve linked to via
social mesh networks, everyone who watches your
blog/lifelog/updates, and everyone you interact with
on various mesh forums. Now add in the friend-of-a-
friend factor, and everyone has an impressive ability
to reach out to people they know, people they sort


of know, and people you don’t know but who are
somehow linked to you in one degree or another.

Of course, social networks are not homogeneous.
Among the ever-diversifying ranks of transhumanity,
there is a tendency to coalesce around various shared
characteristics, whether those be cultural background,
personal interests, professional ties, local connections,
political affiliations, subcultural obsessions, or simply
common interest from being part of the same sub-
species clade. The social network of an info-anarchist
hacker is likely to bear little resemblance to that of a
hypercorp socialite or an isolate brinker. Nevertheless,
social networks quite frequently overlap, often in
unexpected and interesting ways. Most people can
be considered members of several different types of
social networks. This overlap is what links disparate
groupings of transhumans together.


NETWORKING


Just being connected, of course, doesn’t mean you
have several thousand idle transhumans at your beck
and call. If you hope to gather the latest gossip, get
advice from an expert, find someone who can fix your
problems, acquire a piece of gray market tech, or
spread a meme, you need to know both who to talk
to in that social network and how to go about getting
what you need, especially if you hope to keep things
quiet and not raise any flags.

This is where your Networking: [Field] skills come
in (p. 182). Networking represents your ability to
maneuver through this web of personal and imper-
sonal connections to find who and what you need.
This could be handled by word-of-mouth, posting the
right queries in the right places on the mesh, monitor-
ing the right personal profiles and forums, harnessing
the power of the mob with crowdsourcing, or any
number of similar creative tactics.

Each field you have in Networking represents a
particular network grouping, a common interest that
ties people together. Most of these fields are based
on factions (Autonomists, Hypercorp, etc.) and tie
into a special reputation network (see the Reputation
Networks table, below). At the gamemaster’s discretion,
other groupings of people could be connected through
these skills and rep systems. For example, artists and
journalists of all stripes can fall under the Networking:
Media skill and f-rep, no matter if they are autonomist
or hypercorp. Likewise, being a diverse group, brinkers





REPUTATION NETWORKS


NETWORKING FIELD


GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE





NETWORK NAME REP NAME
The Circle-A List | @ Rep
Ci


NGL RTO] WAN TPO Mal aiie)





EcoWave


Fame | socialites (also artists, glitterati, and media)
Guanxi Criminals criminals
The Eye |


Firewall
Research Network Associates


Firewall


Scientists argonauts (also technologists, researchers, and scientists)













a Sa oe =— SSS aaa *, :















do not universally fall into any of the categories, and
are instead spread out between them. If the gamemas-
ter and players agree, other Networking fields and rep
networks may be added, representing other spheres of
interest, such as AR Games, Sports, Slash Fiction, etc.
The exact uses for which you may exploit your
social networks are noted below. While in some cases
the defining element is who you know and how good
you are at reaching out to them, in others the defining
element is how known you are. You might be con-
nected to thousands of people, but if you don’t have
clout, your efforts to make use of these connections is
limited. This is where Reputation comes into play.


REPUTATION


Reputation is a measurement of your social currency.
In the gift economies of the outer system, social repu-
tation has effectively replaced money. Unlike credit,
however, reputation is far more stable.

Within Eclipse Phase, reputation scores are facilitated
by online social networks. Almost everyone is a member
of one or more of these reputation networks. It is a
trivial matter to ping the current Rep score and history
of someone you are dealing with—your muse often does
this automatically, marking an entoptic Rep score badge
on anyone with whom you interact, updated in real time,
so you will see if they suddenly take a hit or become
popular. The 7 most common networks are noted on the
Reputation Networks table. Gamemasters and charac-
ters may decide to add others appropriate to their game.

You purchase a Rep score in one or more of these
networks during character creation. Rep scores are
rated between 0 and 99, just like skills. These ratings
determine your ability to acquire goods, services, and
information and favors, as noted below. These scores
may be raised or lowered during game play according
to your character’s actions.


USING NETWORKS AND REP


In game terms, you take advantage of your connec-
tions and personal cred every time you need a favor.
A favor is broadly defined as anything you try to get
via your social networks, whether that be information,
aid, goods, and so on. Different types of favors are
described under Favors, p. 289.


THE NETWORKING TEST


To pursue a favor, you start by looking around. This
calls for a Networking Test to determine if you can
find the person, people, or information you need. This


NETWORKING MODIFIERS


SITUATION
mee ae


MODIFIER


Rep level exceeds favor level


Variable (p. 288)


Paying extra +10 per level


10 per level


ep amount burned


represents talking to people you know, spreading the
word to people they know, posting queries to the social
network at large, digging through various profiles, chat
rooms, etc. to find someone who might help you out,
and so on.

Networking Tests are subject to modifiers for the
level of the favor (see below), the amount the character
is trying to keep quiet about the request (see below),
and any other factors noted on the Networking
Modifiers table or determined by the gamemaster.

Networking Tests are Task Actions—it takes time
to call in favors or track down information. The time-
frame depends on the level of favor, as noted on the
Favors table, p. 289.


FAVOR LEVELS AND MODIFIERS


Rep scores are broken down into five levels, reflecting
your standing within that community. Every 20 points
of Rep equals one level. See the Reputation Levels
table for a breakdown.

Likewise, favors are also broken down into five
levels, rated from Trivial to Scarce (see Favors,
p. 289, for specific examples). The standard level of
favor you can expect to get from a social network is
based on your level of Rep in that network. If you
want to pursue a favor above your level, you can do
so, but you will suffer a negative modifier on your
Networking Test. This reflects that someone with low
standing has a hard time getting people to go out of
their way for them. Similarly, if you pursue a favor
below your level, you receive a positive modifier to
your Networking Test, reflecting that your prestige
makes it easier to acquire minor things that you need.
For each level the favor falls under or above your Rep
score level, apply a + or -10 modifier, as appropriate.


























Jaqui’s on a scum barge and she needs to get a
hold of a weapon fast. She has a specific weapon
in mind, but it’s pricey—its cost is High. She
decides her best approach is to try talking to the
scum on the ship to try and find someone who
can lend or sell her such a weapon, using her
@-rep and her Networking: Autonomist skill of 50.
Acquiring a High cost item counts as a Level 4 High
favor (see Acquire/Unload Goods, p. 291). Jaqui's
@-rep is 53, which is only Level 3. Since the favor
is one level higher than her rep level, she suffers
a—10 modifier on her Networking Test. Jaqui must
roll a 40 or less (50 — 10) to find a weapon supplier.


REPUTATION LEVELS


REPUTATION SCORE REPUTATION LEVEL


| _ Level 1
a Level 2 ema


Level 3


Level 5


NO
ee)
~


> ACCELERATED FUTURE









SYNOPSIS





WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS





___























PAYING/EXCHANGING FOR FAVORS


Favors don’t necessarily come for free. Depending on
what you’re after, you may also need to exchange for it.
In the capitalist and transitional economies of the
inner system and Jovian Junta, you may need to buy the
goods or services you are after with credit. Even infor-
mation might be paid for by bribing the right person.
Once spent, that credit is gone until you earn more.

In the anarchistic reputation economies of the outer
system, you can get what you need for free. In this
case, you are acquiring goods and services based on
the strength of your reputation.


Jaqui rolls a 39—she makes it! After posting
some public notices on the scum social network
(she’s not worried about legalities or hiding what
she’s doing—this is a scum ship after all), she
gets directed to a weapons dealer with a good
rep. While a scum arms merchant normally sells
their wares for credit, Jaqui is scum herself, so
she's able to use her scum community standing
and get the weapon for free. This uses up a High
favor, however.





THE LIMITS OF REPUTATION


Even in the gift economies, reputation only gets you so
far. There are limits to how often you can ask for help
before you start coming across as pushy or a leech. In
game terms, this is expressed as a refresh rate—the
amount of time you must wait to pass before you can
seek out a favor of that level again without seeming
demanding. Refresh rates are noted on the Favors
table, py 2382.

If you need to seek another favor before the
refresh rate has expired, you have two choices. You
can expend a higher level favor instead, keeping in
mind that higher level favors refresh more slowly.
Alternatively, you can burn reputation (see below).


Now that Jaqui’s got her weapon, she needs
another favor—she needs to find someone who
doesn't want to be found. The person she’s after is
scum, So once again she turns to the scum for help.
The gamemaster decides that this is another Level
4 favor (see Acquire Services, p. 291). Once again,
with her Networking: Autonomist of 50 and Level
3 rep, she must roll a 40 or less. She gets a 21, and
finds someone who has the information she needs.

Jaqui now has a choice. To get this information,
she either needs to pay the person in credits (a
High cost) or she needs to expend another Level 4
favor. She's low on money, so she decides to use
her rep again. Level 4 favors only refresh once a
month, though, and Jaqui used her last one just
a few hours ago. Her only choice is to expend a
higher favor, so she expends a Level 5 to get the
intel she needs.








BURNING REPUTATION


In some cases, getting what you need may be more
important than not stepping on people’s tentacles. In
situations of dire need, you can burn some of your
Rep score to get the job done, meaning that you
exchange a loss of Rep for a shot at a favor. This
reflects that you are pushing the bounds of how far
people are willing to go for you. While you still might
get what you need, your online reputation rating takes
a hit as people flag you for being needy.

There are two reasons to burn Rep score. The
first is to get a bonus on your Networking Test. This
indicates that you are pulling strings and calling in
markers to get the favor you’re after. This is par-
ticularly useful when you are trying to obtain a favor
that’s of a level higher than your Rep, but abuse it too
often and you will soon have no social standing at all.
Every point of Rep you burn gives you an equivalent
positive modifier on the Networking Test, up to a
maximum of +30.

The second option is to burn Rep to seek a favor
before it has refreshed. This reflects that you are
asking for too much in a short period. The amount
of Rep you must burn in this case depends on the
level of favor you are seeking, as noted on the Favors
table, py 267%


Jaqui's got her weapon and her target's where-
abouts, but she needs one more thing: a hacker.
She needs someone who can open some doors
and defeat some security systems so she can
get to the target she’s after in his hideout. Since
she’s on a scum barge, Jaqui feels that, once
again, her best option is to work her scum
contacts. The gamemaster determines that this
will be another Level 4 favor. Rolling against a
target number of 40 again, she gets a 13—her
luck is holding.

She finds a hacker, but now she needs to make
an exchange for their services. Once again she
decides not to spend credit and use her @-rep
instead. Jaqui's already used up both her Level 4
and Level 5 @-rep favors, though, so she has no
choice but to burn reputation. A Level 4 favor costs
10 Rep to burn. Jaqui spends it, sending her @-rep
from 53 to 43—she's been pulling in a lot of big
favors in a short amount of time, and her friends
and acquaintances are expressing their annoyance
by lowering her social standing.





KEEPING QUIET


The problem with using social networks for favors
is that you end up letting lots of other people know
what you’re up to. When you’re involved in a clandes-
tine operation, that could be exactly what you don’t
want. The only way to diminish this is to take your
requests to trusted friends and ask them to keep quiet,
but this diminishes the pool of people at your disposal.








In game terms, you can try to keep word of what
you’re doing quiet, but this makes it harder to get
what you need. For every negative modifier you apply
to your Networking Test, the same negative modifier
applies to anyone making a Networking Test to find
out what you’re up to.


Revisiting one of our previous examples, we go
back to the point where Jaqui was trying to ascer-
tain someone's hideout location. Because the
person she’s after is scum, they're on a scum ship,
and Jaqui is using her Networking: Autonomist
skill to find them, there's a good chance that if
she starts asking around to everyone, word might
trickle back to the person she’s after. She doesn't
want them to know she’s on their tail, though, so
she decides to make her inquiries more discreet.
She applies a —20 modifier to her Networking
Test, which lowers her target number from 40 to
20. As noted before, she rolls a 21, which is a
failure. She spends a Moxie point to flip the roll,
though, making it a 12—a success.

Because Jaqui took that —20 hit, representing
the fact that she was keeping her research quiet,
her target will suffer a -20 modifier when he
makes his Networking Test to see if he gets word
that someone is asking around about his hideout.





FAVORS


Creative players can undoubtedly come up with many
uses for their social networks, but a few of the more
common are detailed here.

Gamemasters should use their discretion as to
how much roleplaying interaction and Networking
Tests are included in using a social network. For
normal goods, straightforward information queries,
or small favors, neither dice rolling nor roleplaying
may be required. For major requests, interactions
with contacts, and mission assistance, dice rolls and/
or roleplaying interaction with contacts from the
social network should usually occur. Gamemasters
may wish to keep track of the NPC contacts in each
character’s social networks and make them recur-
ring characters.


FAVORS


BURNING


FAVOR LEVEL TIMEFRAME REPCOST REFRESH RATE


| (Trivial)


30 minutes


“il month _
2 months.





ACOUIRE/UNLOAD GOODS


Social networks are a good way to find items that
you can’t buy legally or make at home. Depending
on who you’re getting the goods from, this will cost
you credit or require an appropriate Rep score. This
favor can also be used to sell or give away such items,
making some money or perhaps even some Rep in
the process.


ACQUIRE/UNLOAD GOODS


LEVEL SERVICE


Acquire/unload item with an expense of Trivial.


Acquire/unload item with an expense of Low.
_Acquire/unload item with an expense of Moderate,


es | a Acquire/unload item with an expense of High.


Acquire/unload item with an expense of Expensive





ACQUIRE SERVICES


When you lack the skills or education you need, or
you just need another set of arms, you can call out to
your social network to find someone to help you out.
If you are looking for someone with a particular skill,
the result of your successful Networking Test roll is
the skill rating of the person you find. The higher your
Networking skill, the better able you are to find highly
skilled professionals.


Cole needs to find an astrobiologist who can
help him identify an alien critter. He rolls his
Networking: Scientist skill of 50 and gets a 43—a
success. He tracks down someone with Academics:
Astrobiology skill of 43 (his roll) who can help him
out. When the astrobiologist looks the critter over,
the gamemaster makes a roll for the NPC using
that skill of 43.





ACQUIRE INFORMATION


When you can’t find the information online or you
don’t have the time or capability to look, you can
turn to people in your social network and tap their
accumulated knowledge base.


REPUTATION AND IDENTITY


It is important to note that reputation is closely tied
to identity. If you are undercover and using a fake ID,
you can’t really call on your Rep score without giving
yourself away. As a result, many people using false
identities end up building up a separate set of Rep
scores for their alter ego.

Note that since many social network interactions
take place online, it is possible for someone to secretly
make use of their real identity while masquerading
as someone else, as long as they’re careful about it. If
anyone happens to be spying on their activity via the
mesh, they stand a chance of being found out.





> ACCELERATED FUTURE





289 |














Sa ae >
| Trivial favor: Get someone to perform services for 15
| minutes. Move a chair. Browbeat someone. Catch a ride.
| Research someone online. Borrow 50 credits. Other Trivial
! a A | cost services.

— e. | Minor favor: Get someone to perform services for an

a hour. Move to a new cubicle. Rough someone up. Loan a
2 vehicle. Provide an alibi. Healing vat rental. Minor hacking
assistance. Basic legal or police assistance. Borrow 250
credits. Other Low cost services.
Moderate favor: Get someone to perform services
for a day. Move to a habitat in the same cluster. Serious
beating. Lookout. Short-distance egocast. Short shuttle


| 3. trip (under 50,000 km). Minor psychosurgery. Uploading.
Reservations at the best restaurant ever. Major legal rep-
resentation or police favors. Borrow 1,000 credits. Other
Moderate cost services.


Major favor: Get someone to perform services for a
| month. Move a body. Homicide. Getaway shuttle pilot.


Industrial sabotage. Large-volume shipping contract on

4 bulk freighter. Medium-distance egocast. Mid-range
shuttle trip (50,000—150,000 km). Moderate psychosur-
gery. Resleeving. Get out of jail free. Borrow 5,000 credits.
Other High cost services.


Partnership: Get someone to perform services for a
year. Move dismembered body. Mass murder. Major
embezzlement. Acts of terrorism. Relocate a mid-size


| asteroid. Long-distance egocast. Long-range shuttle trip
SYNOPSIS (150,000 km or more). Borrow 20,000 credits. Other
rE ERIS | Expensive cost services. |
Na a ae a ee
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
Ee _
GAME MECHANICS |
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS


Public Information: Make gray market connections.
Where the “bad neighborhood” is. Obscure public


Common Information: Where to eat. What biz a certain
hypercorp is in. Who's in charge.





ACTIONS AND COMBAT | database info. Who's the local crime syndicate. Public
hypercorp news.
MIND HACKS Private Information: Make black market connections.


Where an unlisted hypercorp facility is. Who's a cop. Who's


SS | a crime syndicate member. Where someone hangs out.


Internal hypercorp news. Who's sleeping with whom.


ACCELERATED FUTURE





Secret Information: Make exotic black market
connections. Where a secret corp facility is. Where
someones hiding out. Secret hypercorp projects. Who's
cheating on whom.





GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE


Top Secret Intel: Where a top secret black-budget
5 lab is. Illegal hypercorp projects. Scandalous data.
Blackmail material.











SECURITY


Firewall sentinels make a regular habit of being in
places where they are not supposed to be and bringing
things with them that others would prefer they not
have. Security has a different character post-Fall than
in the 21" century. Due to hyper-abundance, physical
security measures such as locks, doors, and walls are
less important than in the past to common citizens.
People don’t worry about theft as much as in the past
because most items can be replaced by a nanofabrica-
tor. The items that do tend to engender this type of
security are irreplaceable or rare items such as arti-
facts of Earth.

Post-Fall physical security focuses heavily on
surveillance—identifying intruders and tracking
them so that they can be interdicted by transhu-
man or robotic defenders. Surveillance is more
effective than in pre-Fall societies because Als with
near-human faculties of pattern recognition and
indentured infomorphs can be employed to monitor
surveillance data.

The emphasis on surveillance results from the ease
with which most material barriers can be breached
by high-powered hand weaponry and devices
like the covert operations tool (p. 316). However,
physical barriers designed to actively resist intrud-
ers by healing themselves or attacking tools used to
damage them are used at key points in secure instal-
lations. Such barriers are typically very expensive
and so are used sparingly.

Transhuman, animal, and infolife defenders are
cornerstones of most security systems. The avail-
ability of a huge pool of infomorph labor to guard
facilities means that someone is always on duty,
whether as part of the surveillance system or in a
robotic shell.


ACCESS CONTROL


The first step in any security system is simply to enact
measure to keep unwanted people out. At a basic
level this involves walls, locks, fencing, defensive
landscaping, security lighting, and entoptic warnings.

Barriers of different sorts present an obstacle that
must be cut through or blown apart in order to
defeat. Barriers are treated just like other inanimate
objects for purposes of attacks and damage; see
Objects and Structures, p. 202.


BUG ZAPPERS


Bug zappers create minute EMP pulses that are harm-
less to most electronic equipment and implants but
wreak havoc on nanobot swarms, microbugs, and
specks. Bug zappers are generally applied to surfaces,
and as such they only destroy floating/flying swarms
or specks if they land. In areas with heavily shielded
electronics, they may be installed to destroy targets in
an entire room. A zapper instantly destroys all free-
crawling or flying nanobots and specks in a room


ES ————— : :





a a ~ :


when it goes off, but transhuman flesh is sufficient to
prevent it destroying medichines or other implanted
nanobots. Infiltrators trying to gather data in areas
protected by zappers generally resort to going around
them or trying to plant macroscale devices.


ELECTRONIC LOCKS


Electronic locks (e-locks) are commonly used as a
means of maintaining privacy. They are easy to defeat,
however, and so are rarely used in very secure areas.
E-locks have several advantages over old-fashioned
mechanical locks. Different users can have different
authentication methods, they can log all events (entry,
exit, failed authentications), and they can be con-
nected (usually hardwired but sometimes encrypted
wireless) to security systems for remote control and
alarm triggering.

E-locks use one of several authentication systems,
or sometimes a combination of systems:

Biometric: The lock scans one or more of the user’s
biometric prints. Common biometrics include DNA,
facial thermographic, fingerprint, gait, hand veins, iris,
keystroke, odor, palm, retinal, and voice prints.

Keypad: This is an alphanumeric keypad upon
which users enter a specific code. Different users can
have different codes.

Token: Authorized users must carry some sort of
physical token that interacts with the lock to open the
door, such as a keycard, electronic key, etc.

Wireless Code: Users must emit a cryptographic
code via near-proximity wireless signal.

Though various technologies exist to defeat each
of these systems, there are three methods that work
against almost all e-locks. The first is use of a covert
operations tool (p. 316), which infiltrates a lock with
nanobots that swarm in and engage the electronic
mechanism. The drawback to using a COT is that its
use is immediately logged by the e-lock and an alarm
is triggered. Some e-locks are equipped with guardian
nanoswarms (p. 329) to defeat COTs, but the COT
nanobots usually manage to open the lock before the
guardians eat them.

The second method is to hack the e-lock. Most
e-locks are slaved to a security system, so this often
means intruding into the security system and then
opening the lock from within. This can be difficult,
however, especially if the security system is wire-
lessly isolated or hardwired. The advantage is that,
if done right, all evidence of the lock being opened
can be erased.

The third method is to physically open and
manipulate the lock. This requires first opening the
lock’s case and then triggering the lock mechanism
to open the door. Both of these are handled as
separate Hardware: Electronics Task Actions with
a timeframe of 1 minute each. In addition, most
e-locks have anti-tamper circuits that will set off an
alarm if the attacker does not achieve an Excellent
Success when opening the case.








Pm ACCELERATED FUTURE


291





















SYNOPSIS


m=


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


LOCKBOTS


The 21" century saw a move from mechanical locks
to e-locks and other largely electronic locking
mechanisms. These devices worked well for about
50 years, until electronic infiltration capabilities
rendered them largely useless. The more recent
development of lockbots has more in common with
their early mechanical forebears. They are unique,
expensive, artisan items.

A typical lockbot is heavily integrated with the
portal and barrier it protects. Lockbots usually
include an AI or indentured infomorph, self-healing
materials (treat as a self-healing barrier), and a
swarm of guardian nanobots (p. 329). A lockbot
monitors its surroundings and has visual recog-
nition software that knows what its users and
its keys look like (Perception skill 40). Picking a
lockbot is thus incredibly difficult, because it will
shut its orifice and not accept a key that doesn’t
look right or that comes from an unrecognized user.
Unfamiliar nanobots trying to enter the orifice are
targeted and destroyed by the guardian nanobots.
Finally, external tools used to harm the portal or
the lock will be attacked by fractal appendages
extruded from the portal surface or the lock itself.
These appendages have a range of 1 meter, attack
with skill of 40, and inflict 1d10 +2 DV.

Lockbots are generally immune to being hacked
because, for security, they aren’t connected to
the mesh. If attacked, however, lockbots are pro-
grammed to send out an alarm signal via the mesh.

There are several ways to defeat a lockbot. One
is to get a copy or image of the key and then forge
a copy (using nanofabrication). Another is to attack
the lockbot or the portal it guards with so much
force that the lockbot is unable to repair it (usually
using ranged weapons, as anything within a meter
of a lockbot may be counterattacked). A third is
to somehow image the cavity beyond the lockbot’s
orifice without the imaging device being destroyed
and to then forge the key. All of these are difficult
and time-consuming processes.

Some lockbots have the ability to destroy what
they’re protecting. For example, lockbots are a
common protection for the physical interfaces to hard-
wired networks. If the lockbot is compromised, it may,
as a last resort, destroy the interface it was protecting.


PORTAL DENIAL SYSTEM


Installed in corridors or doorways, this is essentially
a laser trap device. When an unauthorized person
enters the portal denial system’s area, it uses lasers
to create a grid of plasma channels that are used to
deliver a powerful electric current to the target. This
system has both lethal and nonlethal settings.

Nonlethal: 1d10 DV + shock (p. 204)

Lethal: 2d10 +5 DV





SELF-HEALING BARRIERS


Walls and doors that are able to rapidly repair them-
selves are sometimes found in high security instal-
lations. These barriers are made of materials that
automatically expand to “heal” small holes and that
are equipped with nanosystems that slowly repair
larger amounts of damage. The best of these barriers
do no more than slow down the most determined
assailants, but in combination with surveillance
systems they are a nuisance to invaders and can slow
down attempts to flee the scene.

Self-healing barriers heal any single source of
damage that is less than 5 points of damage almost
immediately, sealing the hole in 1 Action Turn.
They will also seal the holes inflicted by a covert
operations tool (p. 316) in the same time period.
Additionally, these barriers repair themselves at the
rate of 1d10 damage per 2 hours; once all damage
is fixed any wounds are repaired at the rate of 1
per day. Damage of 3 wounds or more may not be
repaired by self-healing.


SLIPPERY WALLS


On planetary surfaces, high walls and fences are still
common as a first line of defense against interlop-
ers. Slippery walls are surface treated with the slip
chemical (p. 323), creating a virtually frictionless
surface that is exceptionally difficult to climb.


WIRELESS INMMIBITORS


Wireless inhibitors are simple paint jobs or construc-
tion materials that block radio signals. They are
used to create a contained area in which a wireless
network may operate freely without worry that the
signals will escape out of the area, where they can
be intercepted. Wireless inhibitors allow the conve-
nience of using wireless links within a secure area
rather than the clumsier hardwired connections. If
an intruder manages to gain access inside the area,
however, they can intercept, sniff, and hack wireless
devices as normal.


DETECTION AND SURVEILLANCE


Should security measures fail to keep an intruder
out, the second step is to detect an interloper and
track their activity.


AANOTHGGING


A lot of post-Fall security centers not around keeping
people out of private spaces, but tracking them after
they come and go. What little privacy transhumans
have, they cherish. Trespassing is a worse offense
than theft in many places.

A room protected by a taggant nanoswarm (p. 330)
usually has two or more hives, one each at floor and
ceiling level (if in gravity; on the opposite side of the
room if in microgravity) that generate and recycle
nanobots. The taggants emerge from one hive, float
through the room, and then return to the other for








recharging and reuse. A feed line usually connects the
hives so that they can share materials and power.
Anyone passing through the room is likely to be
dosed with taggant nanobots. Once they lose proximity
to the rest of the hive, they hide and periodically broad-
cast pulsed transmissions meant to give their position
to pursuers or investigators. Some may drop off in
clusters to form a breadcrumb trail to the interloper.


SENSORS


Any of the various sensors described in the Gear
chapter (starting on p. 311) may be deployed within
a facility to monitor and record the passage of per-
sonnel, both authorized and not. These sensors are
typically slaved to the facility’s security network and
closely monitored by security Als, meaning they are
vulnerable to hacking and possibly jamming. A few
other sensor types deserve mention here:

Chemical Sniffers: The chem sniffer described on
p. 311 can also be set to detect the carbon dioxide
exhaled in transhuman breaths. This is useful for
detecting intruding biomorphs in areas that are
abandoned/off-limits.

Electrical Sensors: Electrical sensors can be set in
portals to detect a biomorph’s electromagnetic field
in addition to the electrical fields of synthmorphs.

Heartbeat Sensors: These sensitive sensors detect
the vibration caused by transhuman heart beats.
They can even be used to detect the heartbeats of
passengers inside a large vehicle.

Seismic Sensors: Embedded in flooring, these
sensors pick up the pressure and vibration of weight
and movement.


WERPON SCHIMERS


Weapon scanners come in several varieties, includ-
ing those that look for the rare elements used in
extremely destructive weapons such as nukes, those
that attempt to locate personal weaponry, and those
that look for detection taggants.

Rare element scanners are nearly flawless and are
ubiquitous in habitat customs and spaceports. The
only way to circumvent them is to find an alternate
route into the protected area.

Personal weapon scanners can monitor a specific
area, such as a small room or doorway. They use
a number of sensing systems to detect and identify
weapons and other dangerous objects, including
chemical sniffers and radar/terahertz/infrared/x-ray/
ultrasound imaging. They can detect the following
items and substances:


e Metal used in kinetic weapons, seekers, and
flechette weapons

e Devices with onboard hives of metallic nano-
bots (e.g., covert operations tools, spindles)

e Magnetic elements in plasma guns and railguns

e Propellant from firearms ammunition and
seekers (—30 to conceal)





e Chemical fuels used in torch spray weapons
(—30 to conceal)

e All explosives and grenades by their chemical
particulate emissions (—30 to conceal)

e Poisons and bioagents in flechette weapons

e Any weapon or device larger than palm size
(using sound waves and shape recognition)


Characters trying to sneak weapons and
















gear past personal weapon scanners must
make a Palming Test (if concealing) or
an Infiltration Test (if somehow maneu-
vering around without notice). This
is opposed by a Perception Test from
the character or AI manning the
sensor system.


WIRELESS SCANNING


Some high-security areas will


lA
ip
<j |


detecting intruders by their 7. ' ow


intentionally monitor for wire-
less radio signals originating
within their area as a way of


communications emissions. |


These signals can even be used


to track the intruder’s location
via triangulation and other means
(see Physical Tracking, p. 251).
To bypass wireless detection
systems, Covert Operatives can use
line-of-sight laser links (p. 314) for
communication or touch-based


skinlinks (p. 309).


ACTIVE COUNTERMEN SURES


When all else fails, active coun-
termeasures may be deployed
against intruders. While live
transhuman guards are some-
times used, robotic sentries
are more common, typically
Al-driven synthmorphs such as
synths, slitheroids, arachnoids,
or reapers, with guardian
angels (p. 346) providing
air support. Occasionally
Al-operated gun emplacements—
armored turrets that pop out of
walls and ceilings—are also applied.
In some circumstances, these shells are
teleoperated or even jammed by trans-
human security.

Additional countermeasures brought to
bear will depend on the facility in question.
Some sites will engage in active jamming, to
deny the intruders any communication. Others
will deploy hostile nanoswarms and even chemi-
cal weapons.






ACQUIRING GEAR


Characters can get gear in all the usual ways: buying, trading,
Stealing, borrowing, or making. M@ p. 297








Fabricating Gear: With access to a cornucopia machine or another nanofab device, a character may be
able to build their own equipment, given the right blueprints and raw materials. Ml p. 297


PERSONAL AUGMENTATIONS


~ Standard Augmentations @ p. 300

~ Bioware i p. 301

Cyberware @ p. 306

@ Nanoware @ p. 308
~ Cosmetic Mods l p. 309


~ Robotic Enhancements i p. 310












OTHER GEAR


Characters will find many other types
of gear useful:


Communications M@ p. 313
Covert and Espionage Tech @ p. 315
Drugs, Chemicals, and Toxins ™ p. 317


Everyday Tech @ p. 325


Nanotechnology @ p. 326

© Pets Ml p. 330
Scavenger Tech @ p. 330

Services M p. 330


Software ™@ p. 331


Survival Gear M@ p. 332


Robots and Vehicles @ p. 343


~ Armor and Armor Mods & p. 312 and 313






O


WEAPONS


~ Melee m p. 334
~ Kinetic p. 335

~ Beam p. 338

~ Seekers i p. 339
Spray @ p. 341

~ Grenades ll p. 340


~ Exotic Mp. 334 and 342


~ Accessories i p. 342





ULAR









SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





OOK


The accelerated technological levels of Eclipse Phase
enable a number of devices for personal enhancement,
survival, and other uses.


EOULPMENT RULES


The following rules apply to all technological items in
Eclipse Phase.


ACQUIRING GEAR


During character creation, players purchase gear for
their characters using the credits they have during the
character creation process. Once play begins, however,
characters must obtain any equipment they need the
usual way: by buying, borrowing, making, or stealing it.

In the inner system, hypercorp, and Jovian Republic
settlements—and other places where capitalism still
reigns—gear acquisition is simply a matter of finding
a seller and buying it. Each item has a listed cost, from
Trivial to Expensive, as noted on the Gear Costs table.
Due to local availability of resources, supply and
demand, and legalities, these listed costs are meant
to be approximations. When no other factors apply,
the listed Average Cost for that category can be used.
Otherwise the gamemaster should modify the item’s
worth as they see fit, according to local economic
factors, while still keeping it within that cost category
range. The Cost Modifiers table lists out some sug-
gested changes to an item’s cost, but these are simply
recommendations and can be ignored or followed as
the gamemaster deems fit. The exact local conditions
are largely up to the gamemaster to determine, as best
fits their game.

Some gear is listed with a Cost based on other gear
(usually one category higher than a related item).
For any Cost elevated above Expensive, add 10,000
credits for each category raise.

In some circumstances, characters may attempt
to haggle over gear prices. This is best handled as
roleplaying, but the gamemaster may also call for an
Opposed Persuasion Test (or possibly an Intimidation
Test). The character who wins may increase or reduce
the price by 10% per 10 points of MoS.

In the outer system, anarchist, Titanian, scum, and
other habitats that use the reputation economy, charac-
ters must rely on their rep scores to acquire the goods
and services they need. The mechanics for this are
covered under Reputation and Social Networks, p. 285.

Characters are of course free to get their hands
on equipment by any other means they devise—con
schemes, borrowing from friends, and outright theft,
with all of the appropriate tests and consequences.
In some cases, acquiring gear may be an adventure
unto itself.


Moderate


FABRICATING GEAR


Thanks to nanofabrication technology, characters
may also create their own equipment using cornu-
copia machines and similar nanofab devices (p. 327).
The character must have the appropriate blueprints
to do so, whether they come with the fabber, are
bought legitimately or on the black market, acquired
with rep, or found online. Characters may also code
their own blueprint desires, using the Programming:
Nanofabrication skill.


DEAR MODIFIERS


In the technological future, gear is a necessity. In many
cases, use of equipment provides no bonuses, it simply
allows a character to perform a task they would oth-
erwise be unable to do. For example, it is impossible
to pick a mechanical lock without lockpick or some
sort of tool.

In other cases, however, gear provides a bonus to
the task at hand. Climbing a wall may be possible
without tools, but if you happen to have gecko gloves
or other climbing gear, it’s going to be a lot easier. The
specific modifier applied is usually noted in the gear
item’s description, typically ranging from +10 to +30.


GEAR QUALITY


In both of the situations above, it is possible to have
items that are of either exceptional or inferior quality,
with corresponding positive or negative modifiers. The
gear may be well-crafted, state-of-the-art, cutting-edge
experimental, or simply top-of-the-line, applying an


GEAR COSTS


CATEGORY RANGE (IN CREDITS) AVERAGE (IN CREDITS)


Trivial = 1-99 a)


20,000


Expensive 10,0004


COST MODIFIERS


ECONOMIC FACTOR SUGGESTED COST MODIFIER


Item Stolen
term Scarce


ltem ExtremelyRare


Item Common



















of


additional +10 to +30. Or it may be outdated, shoddy,
or in disrepair, inflicting a -10 to -30 modifier (in
some cases canceling out the basic gear bonus).


GEAR SIZES


On occasion, you'll need to know how small or large
a certain piece of equipment is. Though this is largely
something the gamemaster can wing on the fly using
common sense, we’ve listed sizes for many gear items
that are unusual or so futuristic that the average player
may not have a feel for what dimensions the tech
likely is. These size categories are listed on the Gear
Sizes table (below). These sizes should be considered
approximations, as depending on the manufacturer
and process, some items may be smaller or larger than
similar items. It is also important to keep in mind that
as technology advances, the size and components of
various equipment items shrink, so when in doubt, go
with smaller.


MASS AND ENCUMBRANCE


A character who is carrying too much gear should
be slowed down, suffering negative modifiers both
to their movement rates and their skill tests. Rather
than micromanaging the weights of individual pieces
of equipment, however, this matter is largely left to
the gamemaster’s discretion, using common sense.
If a character loads up beyond reason, apply modi-
fiers as seem appropriate. The gamemaster should,
however, keep in mind that many of the manufac-
turing materials used in Eclipse Phase allow for
items that are much lighter than current standards
without any loss of durability or function (see
Future Materials, next page). Likewise, characters in
low or microgravity environments can carry much
larger loads.


GEAR SIZES


SIZE CATEGORY GENERAL DIMENSIONS AND NOTES
So small that the item cannot be seen with-
out the aid of a microscope or nanoscopic
vision (p. 311), and may not be manipulated


without fractal digits (p. 311) or similar tools.


Anything ranging trom the size of a barely
visible small dot to an average insect. —


Mini items may be concealed within some-


one's palm or small pockets. —


Small items may be held | in one emeh rae ae


concealed in normal pockets.


~ Medium size items are cumbersome to hold
with one hand, ranging trom the size of a 2-li-
Medium ter bottle to the size of a medium dog. They do


not fit in pockets, but they may be concealed


_by larger coverings. ee


‘Latge Roughly human-sized.


Huge Vehicles and other more massive ve objects.








CONCERLING GEAR


Characters may attempt to conceal items on their
person, hoping at least to hide them from casual
notice if not an intensive search. To determine how
effectively the character conceals the equipment, make
a Palming Test and note the MoS (the gamemaster
may wish to roll this secretly). Whenever another
character has a chance to notice the concealed item,
they must succeed in a Perception Test and achieve
a higher MoS than was scored on the Palming Test.
The gamemaster should apply modifiers to both tests
as appropriate. For example, concealing a large item
like a sword would be difficult (-30), whereas wearing
concealing clothing like a longcoat or multi-pocketed
jumpsuit would help (+20). Likewise, a character
who is not actively looking is less likely to notice the
hidden gear (-30), whereas someone who conducts a
physical search (+30) or who has enhanced vision to
pierce protective layers will fare better.


DESIGN AND FASHION


Many objects in Eclipse Phase closely resemble their
early 21“ century equivalents—a bottle of soda
is still a transparent container holding a brightly
colored liquid, clothing is obviously something
you wear, and a knife still consists of a blade and a
handle. The materials, processes, and mindsets that
go into making them, however, are quite different.
To start, very few items look have a uniform, mass-
produced look, even if they were. The procedures
of minifacturing and nanofabrication allow every
individual item to be manufactured with a unique
(or at least different) look. In areas with anarchist/
reputation economies, in fact, where personal posses-
sions have very little intrinsic value, expression and
creativity are favored and so many items are artisti-
cally personalized (and actual hand-crafted items are
rare and prized). Likewise, almost all equipment is
designed with ergonomics and ease-of-use prioritized,
so gear with soft curves, pleasing colors, and form-
fitting shapes are common. Many items of personal
technology, such as flashlights or small tools, are
made in the form of ovoids that fit comfortably in
the user’s hand or in similar forms that can be easily
worn or attached to clothing. To someone from the
20" century, many common devices look like oddly
colored rocks or decorative pieces of plastic or
ceramic (in fact, many such items are referred to as
“blobjects” by older transhumans).

The materials used to create everyday items are
also advanced, ranging from aerogel and graphene
to Smart Materials (p. 298) and exotic metamateri-
als with unusual physical properties. In practice, this
means that most items are light, durable (with both
tensile strength and/or flexibility, as needed), water-
proof, dirt-repellent, and self-cleaning. Most gear is
also designed with zero-g or microgravity function-
ality in mind, and can easily be clipped, tethered, or
stuck to a surface with grip pads.











CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
ACTIONS AND COMBAT





MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
a)





GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE








Almost all gear in Eclipse Phase is also available
in forms that are wearable/usable by uplifted animals
and non-humanoid morphs, such as novacrabs, slith-
eroids, and so on. Even if such customized gear is
not immediately available, it is usually not difficult
to nanofabricate. Smart Materials (p. 298) also make
interoperability between different morphs easy.


INTERFACE


It is not uncommon for everyday devices to have no
visible controls as they are designed to be operated via
radio broadcasts from the user’s ecto or mesh inserts. Any
items crafted for use in emergency, combat, survival, or
exploration situations, however, will feature basic physical
controls, just in case. Physical interfaces are typically con-
trolled by touch pads that are nothing more than colored
spots on the device’s surface, though some may also
project a holographic interface display. Most equipment
of this sort can can also be voice-activated and controlled.

Almost all devices are loaded with a complete set
of help files and tutorials. Most electronics are also





mesh-capable and equipped with specialized Als (see
Meshed Gear, next page).


SMART MATERIALS


Many common items of technology are made from
so-called smart materials. These devices contain—or
sometimes consist entirely of—many small nanoma-
chines that can both move and reshape themselves
to alter the object’s shape, color, and texture. For
example, smart clothing can transform from a suit
of specialized cold weather clothing suitable for the
Martian poles in winter to a fashionable suit in the
latest style due to hundreds of thousands of tiny
nanomachines in the clothing that shift and move to
reshape the garment. Similarly, a tool made of smart
materials can switch from a powered screwdriver to
a wrench or a hammer, as the nanomachines move
around and completely reshape the tool. Smart mate-
rials all contain specialized advanced nanomachine
generators (p. 328) that keep them in perfect repair as
long as they are regularly recharged.











Almost all technology in Eclipse Phase is designed
to be operated via radio signals from the user’s
basic implant, although models usable by characters
without basic implants are also available. In addition
all devices contain a nearly microscopic computer and
radio link (known as a “voice”) that allows the user to
easily locate the object and that reports on the condi-
tion of the object or device, how to properly use and
care for it, as well as telling the user when it needs
to be repaired and how. Most are discrete and highly
useful, but cheaply made goods sometimes have overly
annoying voices.

This means that almost all devices can be accessed
via the mesh or directly if within radio range. This
makes them vulnerable to hacking and intrusion
attempts (p. 254) as well as radio jamming (p. 262).
Many devices are, however, publicly accessible (see
Spimes, p. 238). Meshed gear may also be tracked
through the mesh (p. 251). For privacy and security,
these devices are often slaved to other systems (see
Slaving Devices, p. 248); devices worn/carried by


characters are usually made part of the personal area


network and slaved to the character’s mesh inserts/
ecto. For more info on meshed devices, see the Mesh
chapter, p. 234.

Many devices come equipped with Als, who are
equipped with skillsofts that enable them to operate
the device on their own, as according to voiced
instructions or commands issued through the net. Als
are described on p. 264 and p. 332.


RADIO AND SENSOR RANGES


In Eclipse Phase, almost all devices are equipped with
small radios so that they may be meshed. Likewise,
many pieces of gear are equipped with sensors such
as cameras, microphones, or other detectors. The
Radio and Sensor Ranges table notes what range these
devices operate at.


POWER


All of the powered devices in Eclipse Phase require
electricity to function. With rare exceptions, most of
them rely on solar cells, wireless energy transfers, or
powerful batteries. Standard batteries are high-density,





rc a e
| Nano 20 meters 100 meters Smart Dust, Nanobot/Microbot Swarms

| Micro 50 meters 500 meters Microbugs

| Mini 1 kilometer 20 kilometers Mesh Inserts

| Small 5 kilometers 50 kilometers Ectos, Miniature Radio Farcasters, Portable Sensors

| Medium 25 kilometers 250 kilometers Radio Boosters, Vehicle Sensors


Large 500 kilometers


5,000 kilometers














SYNOPSIS


m


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


room-temperature superconductors with 25 times the
capacity of the best batteries in common use in the
early 21™ century. Such batteries may also be con-
structed so that they are flexible, printed on devices, or
woven into fabric. They are good for 100-500 hours
of use and will alert the user when they run low.

More powerful radio-isotope nuclear batteries
are also available, heavily shielded so they do not
emit radiation and good for 3 years or more of use.
Nuclear and standard batteries are often included
together, with the former recharging the latter.

In short, power should rarely be an issue in Eclipse
Phase games, unless it happens to fit the plot. Power
failure could also result from a critical failure roll.


PERSONAL AUGMENTATION


Almost all citizens of the solar system, whether human,
AI, or uplifted animal, use various forms of biological,
cybernetic, or nanotechnological augmentation. The
following is a list of the most common types.

Unless otherwise noted, any bonuses from personal
augmentations are both compatible and cumulative
with bonuses from other enhancements.


STANDARD RUGMENTHTIONS


Most morphs produced in the solar system include the
following augmentations.


BASIC BIOMODS


Almost universal in biomorphs, many habitats will
not allow individuals to visit/immigrate if their bio-
morph does not possess these biomods in order to
preserve public health. Basic biomods consists of a
series of genetic tweaks, tailored viruses, and bacteria
that speed healing, greatly increase disease resistance,
and impede aging. A morph with basic biomods
heals twice as fast as an early 21° century human,
gradually regrows lost body parts, is immune to all
normal diseases (from cancer to the flu), and is largely
immune to aging. In addition, the morph requires no
more than 3-4 hours of sleep per night, is immune
to ill effects from long-term exposure to low or zero
gravity, and does not naturally suffer from biological
problems like depression, shock reactions after being
injured, or allergies. [Moderate, but included for free
in most biomorphs|


BASIC MESH IMSERTS


Mesh inserts are ubiquitous among modern morphs.
This network of cybernetic brain implants is essential
equipment for anyone who wants to stay connected
and make full use of the wireless mesh. The intercon-
nected components of this system include:


e Cranial Computer: This computer serves as the
hub for the character’s personal area network
and is home to their muse (p. 264). It has all of
the functions of a smartphone and PDA, acting
as a media player, meshbrowser, alarm clock/


calendar, positioning and map system, address book,
advanced calculator, file storage system, search
engine, social networking client, messaging program,
and note pad. It manages the user’s augmented
reality input and can run any software the character
desires (see Software, p. 331). It also processes XP
data, allowing the user to experience other people’s
recorded memories, and also allowing the user to
share their own XP sensory input with others in
real-time. Facial/image recognition and encryption
software (p. 331) are included by default.

e Radio Transceiver: This transceiver connects the
user to the mesh and other characters/devices
within range. It has an effective range of 20 kilome-
ters in deep space or other locations far from radio
interference and 1 kilometer in crowded habitats.

¢ Medical Sensors: This array of implants monitors
the user’s medical status, including heart rate,
respiration, blood pressure, temperature, neural
activity, and much more. A sophisticated medical
diagnostic system interprets the data and warns
the user of any concerns or dangers.


Using any of these functions is as easy as thinking.
[Moderate, but included for free in most morphs]


CORTICAL STACh


A cortical stack is a tiny cyberware data storage unit
protected within a synthdiamond case the size of a
grape, implanted at the base of the skull where the
brain stem and spinal cord connect. It contains a digital
backup of that character’s ego. Part nanoware, the
implant maintains a network of nanobots that monitor
synaptic connections and brain architecture, noting
any changes and updating the ego backup in real time,
right up to the moment of death. If the character dies,
the cortical stack can be recovered and they may be
restored from the backup (see Resleeving, p. 270).
Cortical stacks do not have external or wireless access
(for security), they must be surgically removed (see
Retrieving a Cortical Stack, p. 268). Cortical stacks
are extremely durable, requiring special effort to
damage or destroy. They are commonly recovered
from bodies that have otherwise been pulped or
mangled. Cortical stacks are intentionally isolated
from mesh inserts and other implants, as a security
measure to prevent hacking or external tampering.
[Moderate, but included for free with most morphs]


CUBERBRAIN


Cybernetic brains are where the ego (or controlling
AI) resides in synthmorphs and pods. Modeled on
biological brains, cyberbrains have a holistic architec-
ture and serve as the command node and central pro-
cessing point for sensory input and decision-making.
Only one ego or AI may “inhabit” a cyberbrain at a
time; to accommodate extras, mesh inserts (p. 300)
or a ghostrider module (p. 307) must be used. Since
cyberbrains store memories digitally, they have the
equivalent of mnemonic augmentation (p. 307).













They also have a built-in puppet sock (p. 307) and
may be remote-controlled, though this option
may be removed by those who value their security.
Cyberbrains are vulnerable to cyberbrain hacking
(p. 261) and other forms of electronic infiltration/





attack. Cyberbrains come equipped with two or more
pairs of external access jacks (p. 306), usually located
at the base of the skull, which allow for direct wired
connections. [Moderate, but included for free in all
synthetic morphs and pods]


BIOWARE


Bioware augmentations can be acquired either as a
genemod when the morph is designed and grown or
as a later modification to an existing morph, either





by using nanomachines to modify the morph’s tissue
or by externally growing the organ and implant-
ing it. Bioware may be used to enhance biomorphs
(including pods and uplifts), but not synthmorphs (see
Synthmorphs and Bioware, p. 306).


ENHANCED SENSES


The following are a list of the most common enhanced
senses. Each is also available as a cybernetic implant,
but bioware is much more common.

Direction Sense: The character has an innate sense
of direction and distance using advanced inertial
navigation. The character can arbitrarily define any
point as “north” and keep track of which direction
that is, as well as knowing approximately how far
they have come. Characters with this augmentation
can always retrace any route they have taken, only
experiencing difficulty with three-dimensional routes
lacking navigational markers (such as deep space or
undersea; apply a —30 modifier). Since positioning
inside habitats by anyone with basic mesh inserts is an
automatic affair, only characters venturing to remote
locations require this augmentation. [Low]

Echolocation: The character possesses sonar similar
to that of a bat or dolphin. The character bounces
brief ultrasonic pulses off their surroundings and uses
them to form an image of these surroundings through
the pattern of reflections of these pulses received
by the character’s ears. For more details, see Using
Enhanced Senses, p. 302. This augmentation works in
both air and water and has a range of 20 meters in air
and 100 meters in water. [Low]

Enhanced Hearing: The morph’s ears are enhanced
to hear both higher and lower frequency sounds—the
range of sounds they can hear is twice that of normal
human ears see Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302. In
addition, their hearing is considerably more sensitive,
allowing them to hear sounds as if they were five
times closer than they are. A character with this aug-
mentation can easily overhear even a softly spoken
conversation at another table in a small restaurant.
This augmentation provides a +20 modifier to all
Perception Tests involving hearing. [Low]

Enhanced Smell: The morph’s sense of smell is
equal to that of a bloodhound. The user can identify


———%}:


both chemicals and individuals by smell and can track
people and chemically reactive objects by odor as long
as the trail was made within the last several hours
and has not been obscured. The character can also
gain a general sense of the emotions and health of
any character within 5 meters (+20 to Perception or
Kinesics Tests to do so). [Low]

Enhanced Vision: The morph’s eyes have tetrachro-
matic vision capable of exceptional color differen-
tiation. These eyes can also see the electromagnetic
spectrum from terahertz wave frequencies to gamma
rays, enabling them to see a total of several dozen
colors, instead of the seven ordinary human eyes
can perceive. In addition, these eyes have a variable
focus equivalent to 5 power magnifiers or binoculars.
This augmentation provides a +20 modifier to all
Perception Tests involving vision. For further applica-
tions, see Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302. [Low]


MENTAL AUGMENTATION


Mental augmentations are extremely common.

Eidetic Memory: The character can remember
everything that ever happened to them, in detail, with
no long term memory loss. For example, they can
recite a page they read in a book a month ago, recall
a string of 200 random characters they viewed a year
ago, or even tell you what they had for breakfast ona
particular date a decade ago. However, they can only
remember things to which they paid attention. The
character will not remember the contents of a note
on someone’s desk if they merely glanced at it; they
must specifically have read it. No effort is required to
use this augmentation, the character merely needs to
attempt to remember a specific fact. [Low]

Hyper Linguist: The morph’s brain maintains the
linguistic flexibility of a small child, allowing the
character to learn languages with great ease. This
functions as the Hyper Linguist trait, p. 146. [Low]

Math Boost: This implant functions as the Math
Wiz trait, p. 146. [Low]

Multiple Personalities: The character’s brain is
intentionally partitioned to accommodate an extra
personality. This multiplicity is not viewed as a dis-
order, but as a cognitive tool to help people deal with
their hypercomplex environments. This extra personal-
ity can be an NPC run by the gamemaster, a separate
character (in ego form only) made by the player, or the
downloaded fork of another character. For all intents
and purposes, the extra personality is treated as a
separate ego (i.e., it may fork separately), except that
both personalities are backed up in the same cortical
stack and if downloaded they must be placed in sepa-
rate morphs or in another morph with this implant.

Only one ego may be in control of the morph at a
time. The other resides in the background, still active,
but not on a surface level. Each ego is completely
aware of what the other is doing, thinking, etc. If for
some reason the subsumed personality wants to come
to the fore, but the other personality won’t relinquish
control, make an Opposed WIL x 3 Test. Each ego




















naan
ia


=
a
o—


MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE








USING ENHANCED SENS


“ul t Uu r a @ ff
S pecific fr :


perceive





Personal augmentations and technological aic
have drastically increase
ties of most transh
elgenalel-mcxelaat-wcel

sensory Tul

typically the
or a technol | sensor, though tech sensors can -
2=nse only


Tol dal-Met-Valto)avane-Jef-10)i[
Nat-wnce)iKonalate mate -x:
capabilities these


ar it’s a biological sense


sy [-Talehdatae-lale met


—_


omlel—ahun


. Coo daw a
ATIS TIeus


SSeS a
It VI SVECUIUTTT
—— [—
1G Gere LALO frequen:





= =
a


———


=





has its own Lucidity and Trauma Threshold, and they
track stress and trauma separately. Any psi attacks or
social/mental influences only affect the personality at
the fore.

Having an extra ego in your head, working in the
background, is helpful for multitasking. The character
receives an extra Complex Action each turn that may
only be used for mental or mesh actions. [High]


PHYSICAL AUGMENTATIONS


Most physical bioware augmentations are derived
from the capabilities of animals.

Adrenal Boost: This adrenal gland enhancement
supercharges the character’s adrenal response to


capabilities are —


—


~ opyjects, at


———





ale latclancat-lanr
— . .
lo)gaarclmutiiolan








situations that invoke stress, pain, or strong emotions
(fear, anger, lust, hate). When activated, the concen-
trated burst of norepinephrine accelerates heart rate
and blood flow and burns carbohydrates. In game
terms, this allows the character to ignore the modifiers
from 1 wound and temporarily increases REF by +10
(also boosting REF-linked skills and Initiative). These
modifiers apply until the character has calmed down (if
the character also has endocrine control, p. 304, then
adrenal boosts can be activated and deactivated at will,
and the negated wounds are cumulative). [High]
Bioweave Armor (Light): Bioweave armor involves
lacing the morph’s skin with artificial spider silk bio-
logical fibers. This provides an Armor rating of 2/3


























were pressed if they are quick enough. Infrared
also detects the blood flow in a biomorph’s face,
which can be useful in judging emotional states
(+20 modifier to Kinesics Tests), and can spot sub-
surface implants. Some normally white surfaces
are reflective (mirrored) in infrared, potentially
allowing an infrared viewer to see around
(oo) d a=) ame) am ol=val arom 4al=)aahy=) hoon lain dal-me)dal-lauat-lalep
o)aal=e] (im hme) ef-(e 10 -mKo Ml aliag-la-romilelalem lalig-la-ve
is also useful for determining chemical composi-
tion (enabling Chemistry Tests by sight alone).
Infrared sensory input is passive.

Lidar (Visible Light): Similar to radar, but with
aalecealm alle lal=) qm a-.Xo) [0 halelaram ilel-lam-(oah’{-1h’am ekolulala=ss
Me] ai amige)aamadal-Mlavie-la-romaalgelele|amelide-)'ile)(-1an e\-\en
trum off a target and measures the backscatter,
fluorescence, and other properties. Lidar is very
useful for detecting atmospheric chemical prop-
erties and weather. Like radar, it can be used to
measure a target's range and speed, or develop a
three-dimensional image. One clever use of lidar is
Kom ©) ¢-\ok y=) \auee gal-] ohm dal=m oLe)-id(e)ameym-vV(-)avadallale Mla
ore) aamat-).4lavemx-\V-10-) mde) aatmeoymce-lalaliale) m-lalemual-la
(ol at =e au day-hem oXesTudLo)aliale mi (-1k-)aucom\-l-Mim-]a\vadallalemate\s
been moved.

Ultraviolet: Some objects are fluorescent in
ultraviolet light, including some animals, flowers,
Takx-yeepane lal a\syar- [ave mantial=le-I Cm anual(aamy are imei om aaleran
better in ultraviolet than regular light). Some
plants and animals have patterns that can only
be seen in ultraviolet. Likewise, chemical dyes
that only show up under ultraviolet or that make
certain substances (like blood) fluoresce under
ultraviolet light have various security purposes.
Some glass is opaque at ultraviolet wavelengths.

X-Ray/Gamma-Ray: Backscatter imaging systems
Ue} fale Mm, Cum-lalemmey-lanlast-tae-)Vamaa-xe[6l-lalel (=m elgele lla
lake labaa=yto) lend ce)amaala-\-ereliaat=lalyrelar-| mm laat-ler--mr-] ale,
IRM =) BYAULT=0A0] I Ke) ame (=1k-\ed | ale meolala-y-](-\e MUU-r-] ole) ah
and implants. Such imagers are very good at
penetrating walls and metal (up to a cumulative


without changing the appearance, texture, or sensitiv-
ity of the morph’s skin. This armor is cumulative with
worn armor, but not heavy bioweave or carapace. [Low]

Bioweave Armor (Heavy): Heavy bioweave armor
involves lacing the morph’s skin with a denser and
thicker network of the same fibers. The morph’s skin
becomes thicker and somewhat less flexible except
at the joints. The morph’s skin also has an unusually
smooth look, and a distinctively smooth and tough-


feeling texture. This provides an Armor rating of 3/4


without decreasing the morph’s mobility. The charac-
ter’s sense of touch, however, is significantly reduced
(-20 modifier) except on their hands, feet, and face.
This armor is cumulative with worn armor. [Moderate]


USING ENHANCED SENSES (CONT.)























































Armor + Durability of 200, at least at levels safe
iKomudslatsalelaat-lal mi al=si-mx=) aie) aM er=] ape) mee lU | a-¥ar-) xe)
detect the presence of harmful radiation.


SOUNDWAVES


iMal-meg-laciaelksicelame) mule) e-1d(o)acmualaelele|am-manl-rollelaay
YolU | ao ws o)ae).<-1ame (oie laine lanig-\xolel arom @ia-rel0(-lare
(ol [=t- oY =) (obama t= Taler-ae mm alelaar-lammal-t-lalalep pmalela sare)
Veolia (oma) alel-War-lalomm i haa-Lxol0lalomm Gia-telel-vale (1
rl oko smie-]arer-]aemalelaat-lamalt-lalalep mmtelel ale hui hVi-cmele)
fateyam e)ae)ey-lef-1u-mlamic-la0lelaap

Uli ae tole Tale Mm OLhde-kXol0] ave mXo) at-] ame) ol-1e-1- manele)
NL <= g-Xek-] pum eXele) atell ale mexelelale MV\Vc-)\i-\ ke) amr Ie] ae [-y0
Flavemant=r-hiela late mdal-ma-a0leallalem-\ealel-- mm eliue-lxelel ale)
imaging is similarly low resolution, showing
shapes and movement but no colors and few
details unless measured closely (1-2 meters).
Ui dg- Krol U lave Mi -wmerelele mn ce) amlel-laudiavalale mr- Mm ant-1a-la(-1 ie
density, however, and can detect denser materials
hidden beneath less dense ones. Many medical
(oie ULM) IP 4- MU) nu e-}ol0 [ale pmr-lalemeliue-hyelulalemy=1anyo) as
can also detect gas leaks, frictional motor noises,
Varomediaauit-lamant-xeat-lal er) mm=lealhy-ice) ate elnaa-biel0lale|
sensors are typically unaffected by noise clutter
1ice)anmie-laler-]aem-(aeleidiemia-te[0-lalal cy

Infrasound: Infrasound travels much further
id at-laMe ate 0) t-lamcele late muua-tolUl-lavel (=m (alelalel acre CMe)
kilometers). Mechanical machinery, seismic dis-
turbances, tornados, explosions, waterfalls, and
certain weather phenomena create infrasound
waves. Large animals such as elephants and whales
ULX-mmauae-lxele lave mcomae)aavanlelalcer-1X-maVt- Mmual-melaelelare,
over large distances, though infrasound data
transfer is too slow for complex communications.


COMBINED SENSOR SYSTEMS


When used together, these sensor technolo-
gies are potent. For example, the use of lidar,
ida\-1aaat-]miaat-\e plate par-]aleima-\el-|aner-] alm e)e)dle(-m- Maal a-i-o
(olfaa=yaeikelar-)mant-] omevmr-lm ol¥ li Collate m-lalem=\V-1a\ce) al-m- lave,
WV(=lavadaliale mlari(e (=e Si





Carapace Armor: Carapace armor combines bio-
weave armor with hard but flexible plates of a chitin-
ceramic hybrid material modeled on the microscopic
structure and texture of arthropod exoskeletons. This
armor is obvious and has a somewhat crocodilian or
insectoid appearance (character’s choice). The morph
is completely hairless as well. This provides an Armor
rating of 11/11. This armor is not cumulative with
worn armor or bioweave. [Moderate]

Chameleon Skin: The morph’s skin is augmented
with complex chromatophores so that it changes
color like the skin of a chameleon or an octopus. The
morph can match the appearance of almost any color
and most patterns. This provides a +20 modifier to





Infiltration Tests to avoid being seen or noticed, as
long as the character is stationary or not moving
faster than a slow walk. The character must be nude
or wearing smart clothing (p. 325) of the same color/
pattern. If incompletely camouflaged, or if moving
faster, reduce the modifier to +10. In addition te
blending in, the character can also consciously change
the color and pattern of their skin to deliberately
stand out (+20 on Perception Tests to notice) or
simply to produce attractive or interesting colors or
patterns. [Low]

Circadian Regulation: The morph only requires
2 hours of sleep to maintain health and function at
peak mental capacity. The character dreams constantly
while asleep and can both fall asleep and wake up
almost instantly. In addition, the character can easily
and with no ill-effects shift to a 2-day cycle, where they
are awake for 44 hours and sleep for 4. [Moderate]

Claws: The morph has retractable claws like
those of a cat. These claws do not interfere with the
character’s manual dexterity and are razor sharp.
However, they are relatively small and only do
1d10 + 1 + (SOM + 10) damage, with an AP of -1. As
a result, they are legal in almost all habitats and are
considered tools as much as weapons. [Low]

Clean Metabolism: The morph’s symbiotic bacteria,
gut flora, and glands have been genetically engineered
to keep the morph “clean.” The morph also produces
smart antibiotics that prevent the growth of any
bacteria or yeasts in it or on its skin. As a result, the
morph is completely immune to infections, dental cav-
ities, and bad breath, its sweat has no scent, and the
morph’s efficient digestion produces somewhat less
solid waste and less odorous chemicals. [Moderate]

Drug Glands: The morph has specially tailored
glands designed to produce specific hormones or
chemicals and release them in the body. The char-
acter has control over these glands and can release
the chemicals at will. Each type of drug gland is


considered a separate enhancement. For potential
drugs and chemicals, see p. 317. [One Cost Category
Higher Than Drug Cost]

Eelware: Derived from electric eel genetics, a char-
acter can have eelware implanted so that it connects
to a network of bioconductors in the hands and feet
(or other limbs), allowing the character to generate
stunning shocks with a touch. Eelware inflicts shock
damage (p. 204) exactly like a pair of shock gloves.
Eelware can also be used to power implants and spe-
cially designed handheld devices by touch. [Low]

Emotional Dampers: This low-cost alternative to
endocrine control (p. 304) allows the user to volun-
tarily damp their morph’s emotional responses and
various non-verbal cues like pupil dilation, eye move-
ment, or vocal tone. Using this augmentation allows
the user to lie and conceal their emotions in such as
way as to fool the keenest observer; apply a +30 modi-
fier to Deception and Impersonation Tests. This modi-
fication does not affect methods of detecting lies and
emotions that involve reading the character’s neural
state, including psi-gamma sleights. However, this aug-
mentation damps out all emotional responses and so
causes the character to be less persuasive in real-time
personal interactions, imposing a —-10 modifier to other
Social skill tests like Persuasion. Characters can turn
this augmentation on or off at will. [Low]

Endocrine Control: This augmentation modifies the
morph’s endocrine system, giving the character fine
control over their hormone output. This allows the
character to completely control their appetite and emo-
tions and to regulate pain. They receive a +30 modifier
against the effects of hunger, fear, and any forms of
emotional manipulation, such as the Drive Emotion
sleight. This augmentation also allows character to
lie with perfect conviction and to completely fool all
methods of lie detection that do not rely on the target’s
neural output; apply a +20 modifier to Deception Tests.
It also allows the character to remain awake for 48





















— a









hours without penalty, but after this time the character
begins experiencing normal fatigue. Finally, the ability
to regulate pain reception allows the character to
ignore the -10 modifier from 1 wound. [High]

Enhanced Pheromones: The morph’s biochemistry
has been altered so that it produces enhanced phero-
monal signals that subconsciously affect the behavior
of other humans in the vicinity. These pheromones
make the character more attractive and trustworthy to
the target; apply a +10 modifier to appropriate Social
skill tests, such as Persuasion. This augmentation only
affects characters who can smell the pheromones, and
it does not affect uplifts or xenomorphs. [Low]

Enhanced Respiration: By boosting both lung effi-
ciency and the blood’s oxygen-carrying capacity, the
character can live comfortably in both high and low
pressure environments, from 0.2 atmospheres to 5
atmospheres, with no dizziness or need for gradual
decompression. In addition, the character can hold
their breath for up to 30 minutes when performing
minimal activity or for up to 10 minutes while per-
forming highly strenuous activity. [Low]

Gills: The morph’s lung tissue has been adapted to
function as gills, allowing the morph to breathe both
air and water, as long as the water is not toxic or too
stagnant. Characters with this augmentation breathe
in water and then expel the water through slits just
underneath their lowest pair of ribs that seal when the
character is not underwater. [Low]

Grip Pads: The morph possesses specialized pads
on its palms, lower arms, shins, and the bottoms of
its feet. Designed to emulate the pads on gecko feet,
characters can support themselves on a wall or ceiling
by placing any two of these pads against any surface
not made from a material specially designed to resist
this augmentation. Characters can climb any surface
and move easily across ceilings that can support their
weight. Apply a +30 modifier to Climbing Tests. The
pads must be free to touch the surface the character
is climbing (no gloves). The nature of these pads is
obvious to anyone looking at them, but they do not
impair the character’s sense of touch or manual dex-
terity. If combined with the vacuum sealing augmenta-
tion, the character can even stick to surfaces in the
vacuum of space. [Low]

Hibernation: The character can voluntarily reduce
the morph’s metabolism to the point that the morph
requires only 5% of the normal amount of food,
water, and air. The character appears to sink into
a deep sleep, but can maintain a dim awareness of
both touch and sound and so can be easily awakened.
Entering or leaving this state requires 3 minutes where
the character is relatively helpless. With sufficient air,
characters can safely hibernate for up to 40 days
without food or water. [Low]

Muscle Augmentation: The morph’s muscle mass
has been enhanced and toned and myofibers strength-
ened. Apply a +5 modifier to SOM. [High]

Neurachem: This bioware modification enhances
the character’s chemical synapses and juices their


ret 5


— — : 1


neurotransmitters, drastically speeding up neural
connections. Neurachem can be mentally activated
or triggered by charged emotions. Level 1 neurachem
increases the Speed stat by +1, with no side effect.
Level 2 raises the Speed stat by +2, but the character
suffers a nervous system fatigue hangover for 1 hour
after the boost wears off (—20 modifier to all actions).
The speed boost lasts for 30 minutes, though it may
be triggered again. Level 2 may be used as Level 1 if
desired. [High (Level 1), Expensive (Level 2)|

Poison Gland: Similar to the drug gland, this
morph has special glands that produce poisons, like
the venom glands of a snake. The morph has poison
glands in its fingers and mouth, so that it can deliver
either poison by scratching someone with a fingernail,
biting them hard enough to draw blood, or even by
sharing a beverage with someone or spitting into
their drink. The morph is immune to the poisons it
produces. These glands may not produce nanotoxins.
[One Cost Category Higher Than Toxin Cost]

Prehensile Feet: The morph’s feet and leg joints are
altered so that its toes are longer and more dexter-
ous and the big toe is transformed into an opposable
thumb. Physically, the morph’s feet resemble a longer
narrower hand or a human foot with finger (and
thumb)-like toes. The character can walk normally
but must wear specially designed shoes. However,
this morph runs somewhat slower than a morph with
unmodified feet (-1 meter per Action Turn). In addi-
tion, the morph’s hips are slightly modified to allow
greater mobility. In a properly constructed chair, or
when floating in zero-G, the character can use both
their hands and their feet to manipulate the same
object. Most morphs used by characters who live in
zero-G possess this augmentation. [Low]

Prehensile Tail: A long (1.5 meters) prehensile
tail is added to the morph’s backside, extending out
from the tailbone. This tail is prehensile and may
be used to grab, hold, and even manipulate objects.
The character can control the tail’s movements with
concentration, but it otherwise tends to move on its
own. The tail also improves the character’s balance;
apply a +10 to any Physical skill tests where balance
is a factor. [Low]

Sex Switch: A complex suite of alterations allows
the character to switch their physical sex to male,
female, hermaphrodite, or neuter. This change is
mentally triggered but takes approximately 1 week to
complete. [Moderate]

Skin Pocket: The morph has a pocket within its skin
layer, capable of holding and providing concealment
(+30) for small items. [Trivial]

Temperature Tolerance: The morph’s temperature
regulation and circulation are both substantially
enhanced allowing the character to survive in tempera-
tures as low as —30 degrees Celsius and as high as 60
degrees Celsius without discomfort or ill effects. [Low]

Toxin Filters: The morph gains an improved
liver and kidneys and biological filters in its lungs.
Characters with this augmentation are immune to all
















—


——
ee


ee
tt
<r
=
=


I


=—
=


—
Am





CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
ACTIONS AND COMBAT





MIND HACKS
THE MESH





ACCELERATED FUTURE








GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE





chemical and biological toxins, including everything


from recreational chemicals to nerve agents to spoiled
food. In addition, the character can safely and com-
fortably breathe smoke and drink salt water. Unlike
medichines, toxin immunity prevents the character
from experiencing even brief harm or discomfort
from a toxin (medichines merely rapidly repair
damage caused by the toxin and then remove it from
the morph). This augmentation provides no resistance
to concentrated acid, nanotechnological attacks, or
similar destructive agents. Some characters with
this augmentation learn to enjoy the taste of various
chemical toxins like cyanide or arsenic. [Moderate]
Vacuum Sealing: To possess this augmentation, the
character must also possess some form of bioware
armor or carapace armor. The morph has been spe-
cially designed to survive the effects of vacuum. The
character’s skin resists vacuum as well as protecting the
wearer from temperatures from —75 to 100 C. In addi-
tion, the character’s mouth, nose, and other orifices can
seal sufficiently well to resist vacuum, and the morph
possesses a special membrane that extends over their
eyes, allowing the character to see in vacuum without
risking any eye damage. This augmentation is usually
combined with either the enhanced respiration or
oxygen storage augmentation, or both together. [High]


CUBERWARE


Very little cyberware is physically implanted. Instead,
the morph is placed in a healing vat (p. 327) and the
vat’s nanobots construct the cyberware inside the bio-
morph’s body. Cyberware is rarely used for anything
that can be accomplished using bioware.
Synthmorphs and bots may also also use cyberware.


ENHANCED SENSES


In addition to being able to duplicate the affects of all
bioware enhanced senses, there are a few enhanced
senses that can only be produced using cyberware.

Anti-Glare: This visual mod eliminates penalties for
glare. [Low]

Electrical Sense: The character can sense electric
fields. Within 5S meters, the character can instantly
tell if an electrical device is on or off and can see the
precise location of electrical wiring behind a wall or
inside a device. This sense gives the character a +10
modifier on any test involving analyzing, repairing, or
modifying electrical equipment. [Low]

Radiation Sense: The character can sense the pres-
ence and approximate source of all forms of danger-
ous radiation, including neutrons, charged particles,
and cosmic rays. [Low]

T-Ray Emitter: Mounted under the skin of the
user’s forehead, this implant generates low-powered
beams of terahertz radiation (T-rays) that allow the
character to see using reflected T-rays. As discussed in
Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302, this implant combined
with the enhanced vision enhancement (or a terahertz
sensor) allows the user to effectively see through cloth,
plastic, wood, masonry, composites, and ceramics as
well as being able to determine the composition of
various materials. This implant allows the user to see
using reflected T-rays for 20 meters in a normal atmo-
sphere and for 100 meters in vacuum. [Low]


MENTAL AUGMENTATION


These cybernetic augmentations enhance the brain
and mental functions.

Access Jacks: Usually located in the base of the skull
or neck, this implant is an external socket with a direct
neural interface. It allows the character to establish
a direct wired connection using a fiberoptic cable to
external devices or other characters, which can be
useful in places where wireless links are unreliable or
complete privacy is required. Two characters linked
via access jack can “speak” mind-to-mind and trans-
fer information between their mesh inserts and other
implants. All synthmorphs have these by default. [Low]

Dead Switch: This cortical stack (p. 300) accessory is
designed to keep the stack from falling into the wrong
hands. If the morph is killed, the dead switch wipes
and melts the cortical stack completely, so that the ego
cannot be recovered. This option is generally only used
by covert operatives with recent backups. [Low]

Emergency Farcaster: Only characters with corti-
cal stacks can possess this augmentation. The morph
has an implanted quantum farcaster (p. 314) linked
to a highly secure storage facility. The high cost of
this implant also covers the cost of this storage. Using
standard radio and quantum encryption, the farcaster
broadcasts full backups of the character’s ego (pulled
from the cortical stack) once every 48 hours. At the
gamemaster’s discretion, the backup interval may be
scheduled more or less frequently, keeping in mind
that ego broadcasts are generally limited for security












purposes and because they hog bandwidth. These
broadcasts only work when the character is in radio
contact with the storage facility and is typically only
used inside a habitat to broadcast backups back to a
nearby space ship. If the radio broadcasts are blocked
or jammed, this device cannot make backups.

In the event of a farcaster failure, this augmenta-
tion also includes a single-use emergency neutrino
broadcaster (p. 314) as well. This broadcaster contains
approximately 10 nanograms of antimatter stored in
an orange-sized triply redundant magnetic contain-
ment vessel. If the character is dying or urgently wishes
to depart the morph, this tiny amount of antimatter is
brought into contact with a similarly tiny amount of
matter in a controlled fashion that generates a single





brief and carefully coded neutrino pulse of the ego’s
most recent backup. However, the heat generated by
this process literally cooks the entire morph, killing it
and destroying all implants and electronics in or on it.

This entire process takes less than 0.1 second and
the broadcast can be received as long as the neu-
trino receiver is within 100 astronomical units of
the character. Within the solar system, this implant
effectively guarantees the character’s backup. It is less
useful on exoplanets where the character is out of
neutrino range of their backup facility. The amount
of antimatter carried by this implant is sufficiently
small enough that it does not produce an explosion
and will not damage any surrounding objects. Most
habitats carefully scan all visitors to determine if they
have this implant and if the amounts of antimatter
involved are sufficiently low as not to pose a danger
to the habitat and its inhabitants, and some ban this
implant entirely. [Expensive]

Ghostrider Module: This implant allows the
character to carry another infomorph inside their
head. This infomorph could be another muse, an AI,
a backed-up ego, or a fork. The module is linked to
the character’s mesh inserts, so the ghost-rider can
access the mesh. The character may limit the ghost-
rider’s access, or may allow them direct access to their
sensory information, thoughts, communications, and
other implants. [Low]

Mnemonic Augmentation: A character with this
augmentation and a cortical stack can access digital
recordings of all of the sensory data they have experi-
enced in XP format (and they may share these record-
ings with others). Mnemonic augmentation differs
from the eidetic memory bioware because it allows
characters to digitally share all of their sensory data
with others. It also allows them to closely examine
sensory data they did not initially look at. For
example, If the character glanced at a note but did not
read it, they can later use image enhancement soft-
ware to enhance this image and in most cases actually
read what the note said. Mnemonic augmentation
allows the character to clearly hear all background
noises, like a conversation at a nearby table that the
character only initially heard a few words of. Using
mnemonic augmentation to retrieve a specific piece of


———%}:









information is quite easy, but usually requires between
2 and 20 minutes of concentration. [Low]

Multi-Tasking: Only characters with cortical stacks
can possess this augmentation. The character has
an advanced computer installed in their brain that
Hses| ie datalimaine COrieal stack to elieate several
simultaneous short-term forks to handle various
mental tasks. By design, this computer automatically
reintegrates all of these forks into the character’s core
personality after a maximum of 4 hours, earlier if
desired. This augmentation allows the character to
both plan a speech and engage in intensive mesh-
browsing while simultaneously fighting a gun battle or
running from pursuit, since each of the forks operates
independently. However, these forks can only perform
purely mental or on-line interactions. This augmenta-
tion can produce a maximum of two forks at a time,
giving the character an extra two Complex Actions
on every Action Phase for mental or on-line actions.
This implant cannot be used simultaneously with any
other augmentation that allows for extra actions, or
with the mental speed augmentation (p. 308). [High]

Puppet Sock: This implanted computer allows the
biomorph’s body (the “puppet”) to be controlled by
another character (the “puppeteer” ). While active, the
puppet has no control over their body and is simply
along for the ride (at the gamemaster’s discretion,
puppets who are tormented by repeated or extensive
loss of control may suffer mental stress). The puppe-
teer may directly “jam” the puppet or remote control
it in the same way that robots and pods are teleoper-
ated (p. 196). The puppeteer must either be ghost-
riding the puppet (see the Ghostrider Module, p. 307)
or have a direct communications link (via mesh, radio,
laser, etc.). [Moderate]


PHYSICAL AUGMENTATIONS


This implants enhance the morph’s physical body.

Cyberclaws: The bones on the back of the
morph’s hand are bonded to smart material claws.
These claws can extend through concealed ports
in the morph’s skin and extend 6 inches past the
morph’s knuckles. These razor-sharp weapons inflict
1d10 + 3 + (SOM + 10) damage and have an AP
of —2. If combined with eelware (p. 304), they can
also inflict electric shocks. Likewise, cyberclaws can
also deliver poison or nanotoxins secreted from a
poison gland (p. 305) or implanted nanotoxins. [Low]

Cyberlimb: In an age when arms and legs can
easily be regrown, many people consider cybernetic
prostheses to be vulgar and distasteful. The Scum
and others, however, treat them as iconic symbols
of self-expression. Standard replacement cyberlimbs
function the same as their biological equivalents,
though that particular limb receives a +3/+3 Armor
bonus when targeted specifically (this bonus does not
apply to synthmorphs). Cyberlimbs may be masked
to look real (see Synthetic Mask, p. 311), and may
also feature small compartments for hiding/storing
small objects. [Moderate]























SYNOPSIS


m=


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


Cyberlimb Plus: More extravagant cyberlimb
models are also available, though they require more
severe body alteration to accommodate. These limbs
apply a +5 SOM bonus per limb (maximum +10).
They may be replacement limbs or “extra” limbs
anchored in the body’s skeletal frame. These cyber-
limbs may not be masked. [High]

Hand Laser: The morph has a weapon-grade laser
implanted in its forearm, with a flexible waveguide
leading to a lens located between the first two knuck-
les on the morph’s dominant hand. The laser fires
from this waveguide, inflicting 2d10 damage with 0
AP. The laser is powered by a small nuclear battery
located in the morph’s torso, good for 50 shots before
it must be recharged like other beam weapon batteries
(p. 339). [Moderate]

Hardened Skeleton: The morph’s skeleton has been
laced with strengthening materials. Apply a +5 DUR
and +5 SOM bonus. [High]

Oxygen Reserve: The morph has a miniature
oxygen tank and rebreather installed in its torso. This
implant provides the equivalent of the life support
system in a light vacsuit (p. 333), allowing the charac-
ter to breathe comfortably for up to 3 hours. It feeds
oxygen directly to the morph’s blood stream, avoiding
problems with pressure changes. Implanted sensors
automatically cause the character to use the stored
oxygen if they detect poisonous or insufficient atmo-
sphere. Without vacuum sealing, the character can
only survive in vacuum for 5 minutes, but remains
conscious and active for the entire time, giving them
far more time to find shelter or a vacsuit than charac-
ters without this implant. For every hour the character
is in a breathable atmosphere, this implant recovers
one hour of oxygen storage. The implant can be fully
recharged within 15 minutes if the character is in a
high-pressure mostly oxygen atmosphere. [Low]

Reflex Boosters: The morph’s spinal column and
nervous system is rewired with superconducting
materials, boosting transmission speed. This raises
the character’s REF by +10 and improves Speed by
+1. [Expensive]


NANQWARE


All augmentation nanoware is advanced nanotech-
nology (p. 328), consisting of a grape-sized nanobot
generator that produces specialized nanomachines.
Nanoware is available for synthmorphs and bots in
addition to biomorphs.

Implanted Nanotoxins: The morph has an
implanted nanobot hive that produces nanotoxins
(p. 324). This implant is designed so that the charac-
ter can deploy these nanobots instantly via a scratch
with claws, spraying with saliva, or simply making
continuous bare-skin contact. Characters can choose
whether or not to deploy these nanobots. Each nano-
toxin generator only produces a single variety of
nanobots, with the most common types being ones
designed to kill or incapacitate almost any living
target or ones designed to destroy delicate machinery.


Characters are immune to their own nanotoxins.
Nanotoxins are highly restricted and many habitats
will not allow anyone with this implant on board.
[One Cost Category Higher Than Toxin Cost]

Medichines: This is the most common form of
nanoware. These nanobots monitor the user’s body at
a cellular level and fix any problems that arise.

Medichines eliminate most diseases, drugs, and
toxins (but not nanodrugs or nanotoxins) before
they can do more than minor harm to the host (see
Drug Effects, p. 318). If desired, the user can tempo-
rarily override this protection to permit intoxication
or other effects, but unless the character activates a
second specially labeled override, medichines prevent
the toxins from accumulating to lethal or permanently
harmful levels. In this case, they can also be activated
at a later point to reduce a drug or toxin’s remaining
duration by half.

Medichines allow the character to ignore the effects
of 1 wound. They also speed normal healing as noted
under see Biomorph Healing, p. 208. If the user
suffers 5 or more wounds at once, or more than 6
wounds in an hour, the damage has exceeded the med-
ichines’ ability to repair. In this case, the medichines
place the character into a medical stasis, where their
mind and body are perfectly preserved, but where the
character cannot act in any way. Under these circum-
stances the medichines also send out a priority call
for emergency services via the character’s mesh inserts.

Medichines for synthmorphs and bots consist
of nanobots that monitor and repair the shell’s
integrity and internal system functions. Note that
the synthmorph version of medichines allows the
synthmorph to self-repair in the same manner by
which a biomorph with medichines would naturally
heal (p. 208). [Low]

Mental Speed: With this nanoware system, nanobots
alter the character’s neural architecture and augment
the functioning of their neurons. The character can
deliberately speed up their mind to think and also
receive and process sensory information far faster than
ordinary humans. Time seems to subjectively slow
down for the character, allowing them to carefully
plan their next action, even if they only have a split
second to do so. With this system active, the character
can discern things occurring too fast for a normal
human to perceive, such as the individual frames of
an old analog film or understanding sounds that were
accelerated to many times their normal speed. The
character can also read 10 times faster than normal
and can track the paths of bullets and similar fast-
moving objects with a successful Perception Test.

When using this augmentation, the character gains
two extra Complex Actions during each Action Phase
that may only be used for mental actions. The charac-
ter also receives a +3 Initiative bonus. The character
thinks at normal speed whenever this nanoware is
inactive. This nanoware is incompatible with any other
augmentation that provides any form of extra actions,
such as multi-tasking. This augmentation can be used








as often as desired, but actively using it renders ordi-
nary conversation and social interactions difficult and
requires concentration to maintain. [High]

Nanophages: These nanobots patrol the body,
alert for signs of intrusive nanodrugs or -toxins and
destroying them before they have more than a minor
effect. Nanophages provide automatic immunity
against nanodrugs and nanotoxins unless they are
specifically commanded to stand down by the user, via
their mesh implants. [Moderate]

Oracles: These neural macrosensing nanobots pay
attention to the sensory input on which the character
is not focusing, alerting them about important things
they might otherwise overlook. Oracles also act as a
sort of memory buffer and search aid, extending short
term memory, helping the character recall memories
and details, and crosschecking them with other memo-
ries. Oracles negate Perception modifiers for distrac-
tion, apply a +10 modifier to Investigation Tests, and
add a +30 bonus to memory-related tests. [Moderate]

Respirocytes: These nanobots act as highly efficient
artificial red blood cells, increasing the ability to
transfer oxygen and carbon dioxide. This increases
the morph’s ability to hold their breath to 4 hours
and increases DUR by +5. [Moderate]

Skillware: The morph’s brain is laced with a
network of artificial neurons that may be formatted
with downloaded information. This allows the user to
download skillsofts (p. 332) into their brains, gaining
the use of those programmed skills until the skillsoft
is erased or replaced. Skillware systems are only
capable of handling 100 total skill points worth of
skillsofts at a time. [High]

Skinflex: This disguise implant allows the user to
restructure their facial features and musculature and
alter skin tone and hair color. The entire process takes
a mere 20 minutes. Skinflex adds +30 to Disguise
Tests. [Moderate]





Skinlink: Skinlink nanobots live on the morph’s
external skin or shell, automatically swarming over
and creating a physical connection with any electron-
ics the user touches. They also take advantage of the
electrical field in a biomorph’s skin for communica-
tion. They allow the user to communicate and mesh
with any devices merely by touching them. This
is considered a wired link, and so is not subject to
wireless interception or interference. Two skinlinked
characters can also communicate and mesh simply by
touching. [Moderate]

Wrist-Mounted Tools: The morph has a 6 centime-
ter-wide metal band containing nanobot generators
implanted around each wrist. These nanobots link
together to duplicate the function of a utilitool
(p. 326), creating narrow, highly flexible arms that
each ends in a specialized tool. These nanobots can
also produce tiny fiber optics to allow the character
to see through small openings, as well as being able
to create small weapons equal to bioware claws. The
fact that these tool are mentally controlled gives the
character a +20 modifier to skills involving repairing
or modifying devices with mechanical parts, opening
locks or disarming alarm systems, or performing first
aid. [Moderate]


COSMETIC MODS


In an age of universal beauty, artistic cosmetic modi-
fication of your body is commonly pursued by many
transhumans. Body mods once considered dangerous
or edgy are now safe and commonplace, especially
among factions like the anarchists, scum, or brinkers.

Bodysculpting: If your morph’s enhanced physique
isn’t enough, you can take it further with custom
bodysculpting such as as elongated ears or fingers,
nose alteration, hair addition/removal, feathers, exotic
eyes, snakeskin, endowed genitalia, and more unusual
physical alterations. [Low]

















SYNOPSIS


om


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


Nanotats: Tattoos created with nanobots can
move around the body, change shape/color/bright-
ness, texture, alternate text and images, and/or
even create minor holographic effects on the skin’s
surface, all controllable via mesh inserts. [Low]

Piercings: Name any part of the body and some-
one’s figured out a way to pierce it, probably mul-
tiple times. Hoops, barbells, plugs, and chains are
extremely common, often made of shapechanging
smart materials. [Trivial]

Scarification: Given modern medical abilities, scars
of any sort are purely an affectation. [Trivial]

Scent Alteration: Minor changes to a body’s bio-
chemistry can alter a character’s natural smell or
constantly perfume them. [Low]

Skindyes: Dye jobs are available in all conceivable
colors and patterns. [Trivial]

Subdermal Implants: Adding small implants under
the skin can create bumps, ridges, piercing anchors,
and similar textures and alterations. [Trivial]


ROBOTIC ENKANCEMENTS


The following modifications are only available to
synthmorphs/robots.


ARMOR


These armor modifications add to the synthmorph’s
built-in Armor rating. They are not compatible with
worn armor.

Heavy Combat Armor: The synthmorph’s frame
is loaded with armor that offers protection from
heavy weapons for serious combat operations. This
modification is bulky and noticeable; the bot frame
is encased in a heavy-duty carapace. It increases the
bot’s built-in Armor by +16/+16. The shell’s mobility
systems and power output are also enhanced to deal
with the extra load. [High]

Industrial Armor: The shell is equipped with pro-
tection against collisions, extreme weather, industrial
accidents, and similar wear-and-tear. Increase the
bot’s built-in Armor rating by +10/+10. [Moderate]

Light Combat Armor: The synthmorph’s frame is
protected by armor designed for policing and secu-
rity duties. This increases the bot’s built-in Armor by
+14/+12. [Moderate]


MOBILITY SYSTEMS


Shells are designed with a wide-range of propul-
sion systems, and are sometimes built for a specific
environment/gravity. Some synthmorphs may have
multiple mobility systems. Many such systems are
retractable, meaning they can be folded away into the
shell’s frame.

Hopper: Hoppers have two or more legs designed
to propel the morph forward or up, much like a frog
or grasshopper. [Moderate]

Hovercraft: The shell uses an impeller to blast a
cushion of high-pressure air off the surface below,
repelling the frame off the ground (modern hovercraft
do not use rubber skirts). Most hovercraft travel a


meter or so above the ground, but can temporarily
levitate themselves higher for short periods. [Low]

Ionic: The shell uses principles of magnetohydro-
dynamics to levitate and fly, by ionizing surrounding
air into plasma to create lift and momentum. The
shell is also spun for stability. This system does not
work in vacuum, but an underwater version uses the
same mechanics for propulsion in liquid environ-
ments. [High]

Microlight: Popular in low-grav and microgravity
environments, microlights encompass several types of
ultralight or lighter-than-air systems, such as powered
paragliders, autogyros, balloons, aerostats, and
blimps. These systems do not work in vacuum. [Low]

Roller: Only for circular shells, this system allows
the synthmorph to roll like a ball. The shell rolls
around an interior axle, propelled by a motor-driven
pendulum. [Moderate]

Rotorcraft: Rotating blades create lift, allowing
the shell to move and hover like a helicopter. Most
models use tilt-rotors or tilt-wings so that the rotor-
blades may be moved forward (for faster propeller-
like propulsion) and for better maneuverability in
zero-G. This system does not work in vacuum. [Low]

Snake: Commonly used by slitheroids, these shells
use lateral undulation, flexing their body from left to
right and waving their frame forward. Such shells may
also use sidewinding or a concertina motion (straight-
ening forward, then retracting the rear) to move. They
also featured gyroscope stabilization so that they may
circle into a hoop and roll like a wheel. [Moderate]

Submarine: Designed for undersea mobility, subma-
rine shells use propellers or pumpjets to push through
water. [Moderate]

Tracked: Tracked shells use smart rotating treads to
work their way across surfaces that would bog down
other ground vehicles. They can prop themselves up
in order to overcome taller obstacles or to lay them-
selves down to bridge across a ditch or crevice. [Low]

Thrust Vector: These shells use either turbofans or
turbojets to create atmospheric lift with a set of wings.
The engines may be maneuvered to point and generate
thrust in different directions for vertical takeoffs/land-
ings and better maneuverability in zero-G. [Moderate]

Walker: Walkers use two or more limbs to walk or
crawl across a surface. Many use grip pads (p. 305) or
magnetic systems (p. 311) to stick to surfaces. [Low]

Wheeled: Most wheeled shells feature smart
spokes that allow the wheels to conform their shape
to obstacles and even climb stairs. Some low-grav
shells feature puncture-resistant and self-repairing
compressed-gas tires. [Low]

Winged: Primarily used by smaller shells, this system
of four independently controlled wings allows the shell
to hover or move rapidly in any direction. [Low]


PHYSICAL MODIFICATIONS


These mods are applied to the shell’s physical frame.
Extra Limbs: The shell is equipped with one or
more extra limbs. A character using these limbs





= — : i








suffers an off-hand modifier (see Wielding Two or
More Weapons, p. 206. These limbs may be arms
(with hand/grippers/etc.), legs, tentacle-like, or other-
wise articulated and/or prehensile. Some shells have
rotational frames that allow them to move limbs
around their body. [Low]

Fractal Digits: The synthmorph has “bush robot”
digits that are capable of splitting into smaller digits,
and those smaller digits into micro digits, and so on
down to the micrometer scale, allowing for ultra-fine
manipulation. Apply a +20 COO modifier where such
fine manipulation is a factor (such as detailed repair
work). The bot must have functioning nanoscopic
vision (p. 311) to get this bonus. [Moderate]

Hidden Compartment: The shell has a concealed
aperture for a shielded interior compartment, ideal for
storing valuables or smuggling contraband. Apply a
—30 modifier to detect this compartment either manu-
ally or with sensor scans. [Low]

Magnetic System: A magnetic system allows the
shell to cling to most ferrous materials. This enables
the character to walk in zero-G situations by magneti-
cally adhering surfaces, hang upside down, and hold
onto devices without letting them drop or drift away.
The shell receives a +30 modifier whenever maintain-
ing a magnetic hold on something. [Low]

Modular Design: This shell is designed to lock
together with similar modular morphs in different
architectural patterns to create larger gestalt forms.
When united with other modules, the group is treated
as a single unit/morph, with shared capabilities. If
damaged and then separated, damage and wounds are
distributed evenly between modules; uneven amounts
are allocated randomly. The exact capabilities of
different shapes depends on the composition, and is
largely left in the gamemaster’s hands. [High]

Pneumatic Limbs: The limbs are equipped with pneu-
matic cylinder systems that can generate up to 7,000
newtons of force. This allows the shell to push off and
make impressive jumps (a synth of human size/weight
can leap over 2 meters up). Apply a +20 to Freerunning
Tests. A pneumatic limb used to strike an opponent in
unarmed combat inflicts an extra 1d10 damage. [Low]

Retracting/Telescoping Limbs: The shell’s limbs can
either be retracted completely inside it’s frame and/or
extended for extra length (usually up to 1 or 2 meters
extra). Telescoping limbs may give the shell a reach
advantage in melee combat (p. 204). [Low]

Shape Adjusting: This shell is made from smart
materials that allow it to alter its shape, altering its
height, width, circumference, and external features,
while retaining the same mass. This modification is
typically employed to reshape the morph into special
configurations adapted to specific tasks (for example,
lengthening to crawl through a tunnel, widening its
base for stability, expanding to reach out and attach
to multiple access point simultaneously, and so on).
This mod also allows the morph to change its fea-
tures for disguise purposes; apply a +30 modifier to
Disguise Tests. [High]


em


ret






a
ee
= = = ——=—





Structural Enhancement: This modification bolsters
the shell’s structural integrity, boosting its ability to
take damage. Increase Durability by 10 and Wound
Threshold by 2. [Moderate]

Swarm Composition: The shell is not a single unit
but a swarm of hundreds of insect-sized robotic
microdrones. Each individual “bug” is capable of
crawling, rolling, hopping several meters, or using
nanocopter fan blades for airlift. The cyberbrain,
sensor systems, and implants are distributed through-
out the swarm. Though the swarm can “meld”
together into a roughly child-sized shape, the swarm
is incapable of tackling physical tasks like grabbing,
lifting, or holding as a unit. Individual bugs, however,
are quite capable of interfacing with electronics.
Swarms cannot carry most gear or wear armor, and
may not make strength-based SOM-linked skill tests.
For combat purposes, use the same rules as given
for nanoswarms (p. 328). Damage and wounds are
reflected as damaged/massacred bugs. The swarm may
be “healed” by manufacturing more bugs. [High]

Synthetic Mask: The synthmorph is equipped
with a realistic outer casing of faux-skin and care-
fully sculpted to pass as a biomorph (perhaps even a
particular person). The morph can cry, spit, have sex,
and will even bleed if cut. Only a detailed physical
examination or a radar, terahertz, or x-ray scan will
detect the synthmorph’s true nature, and even then
such exams/scans suffer a —30 modifier. [Moderate]

Weapon Mount: The shell carries a built-in (or built-
on) weapon. This weapon mount may be either internal
(concealed, only weapons small in relation to the shell
may fit, —-30 to Perception Tests to detect) or external
(visible). It may be fixed (one direction only), swiveling
(limited field of fire), or on an articulated mount (all
directions). [Low; Moderate for concealed/articulated]


SENSORS
360° Vision: The shell’s visual sensors are situated for
a 360-degree field of vision. [Low]

Chemical Sniffer: This sensor detects molecules in the
air and analyzes their chemical composition. It enables
Chemistry Tests to determine the presence of gases,
including toxins and other fumes. It can also detect the
presence of explosives and firearms. [Moderate]

Lidar: This sensor emits laser light and measures
the reflections to judge range, speed, and image the
target. See Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302. [Low]

Nanoscopic Vision: The shell’s visual sensors can
focus like a microscope, using advanced superlens
techniques to beat the optical diffraction limit and
image objects as small as a nanometer. This allows
the character to view and analyze objects as small as
blood cells and even individual nanobots. The synth-
morph must stay relatively steady to view objects at
this scale. [Moderate]

Radar: This sensor system bounces radio or micro-
waves off targets and measures the reflected waves
to judge size, composition, and motion. See Using
Enhanced Senses, p. 302. [Low]
































SYNOPSIS


MIND HACKS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


ARMOR


Modern personal armor systems have advanced
from the high-modulus polyethylene thermoplastics
and aramid fabrics of the early 21* century. Armor
in Eclipse Phase is derived from biotech, in the form
of organoweave fibers and crystalline-grown plates,
and nanotech, in the form of shock-absorbing fuller-
ene (p. 298) materials. Occasionally other materials
are used, such as metallic glass plates or shear-resistant
fluids that harden against impacts. Such armor protects
against (armor-piercing) bullets and kinetic impacts
as well as bladed weapons and piercing sharp objects.
They also insulate against both the explosive heating of
energy weapons and electrical shocks. While such armor
protects against bullets, the layers of material catch the
bullet and redistribute its kinetic energy across the body,
which can still result in severe blunt force trauma.

Rules for armor in combat can be found on p. 194.
Armored exoskeletons are listed on p. 344.

Armor Clothing: The extra-resilient organoweave
fibers and fullerene materials that offer basic protec-
tion against kinetic and energy weapons can be woven
in with normal smart materials to create a wide range
of discreet armor clothing that provides a subtle level
of security. Such protective garments are indistin-
guishable from regular clothing and come in all styles
and designs. Armor clothing provides an Armor Value
of 3/4. [Trivial]

Armor Vest: Armor vests provide more thorough
protection to a body’s vital areas, covering the
abdomen and torso completely, protecting the neck
with a rigid collar, and even providing wrap-under
protection for the groin. Though armor vests are not
bulky, they are obvious as armor. Armor vests may
be worn with armor clothing without penalty. Armor
vests provide an Armor Value of 6/6. [Low]

Body Armor (Light): These high performance armor
outfits protect the wearer from head to toe. An integrated
armor vest is supplemented with increased protection on
the limbs and joints, while still managing to be flexible
and non-restrictive. Body armor is typically worn by
security and police forces, and supplemented with a
helmet. It provides an Armor Value of 10/10. [Low]

Body Armor (Heavy): Similar to light body armor,
but with extra protective layers, often ergonomically
manufactured to conform to a specific character’s
body, and an environmental seal with climate control
to protect the wearer from hostile environments. It
provides an Armor Value of 13/13. [Moderate]

Crash Suit: Designed for both industrial work-
site safety and protection from accidental zero-G
collisions, crash suits are also favored by sports
enthusiasts and explorers. The basic jumpsuit offers
comfortable protection equal to that of armor cloth-
ing. When activated with an electronic signal, however,
elastic polymers within the suit stiffen and form rigid
impact protection for vital areas. Crash suits provide
an Armor Value of 3/4 when inactive and 4/6 when
activated. [Low]


Bioweave Armor (Light


Wardsutt





Helmet: This armor accessory is usually worn with
body armor. Light helmets are open, whereas full
helmets latch on and provide an environmental seal
with a 12 hour supply of air. Light helmets provide
an Armor Value bonus of +2/+2, whereas full helmets
add +3/+3. Helmets are often equipped with an ecto
(p. 325), a radio booster (p. 314), and sensors equal
to specs (p. 326). [Trivial]

Riot Shield: Used for mob suppression, riots shields
are light-weight, tough, and may be set to electrify on
command, stunning anyone who comes into contact
with the outer surface (treat as a see shock attack,
p. 204). Riot shields provide an Armor Value bonus
of +3/+2. [Low]

Second Skin: This lightweight bodysuit, woven





from spider silks and fullerenes, is typically worn
as an underlayer, though some athletes use it as a
uniform. It provides minimal protection, but may be
worn with other armor without penalty. It provides an
Armor Value of 1/3. [Low]

Smart Skin: Smart skin is an advanced nanofluid
that covers the wearer’s skin. It resembles liquid
mercury but retains the texture and flexibility of
normal skin until activated, at which point the mate-
rial becomes rigid enough to protect the wearer and


ARMOR VALUES


ENERGY KINETIC PAGE
Armor Clothi


rmor Vest


Battlesuit Powered Exoskeleton


Bioweave Armor (Heavy)


oye amen | ht


ames


_Synihmarpi Combat Aimar (Heavy,


Trike Exoskeleton 7 | | 4 (344 /


Vacsuit (Standard)










distribute the kinetic energy (though still flexible
enough at the joints not to impede movement). A spe-
cialized hive, worn by the character, replenishes the
nanobots and stores them when not in use. Deploying
the nanobots across the body takes a full Action Turn.
Smart skin has an Armor Value of 3/2, and may be
worn with other armor without penalty. [Low]

Spray Armor: This fast armor application comes in
a spray can and disperses a smart chemical polymer
that sticks to bare flesh (but does not adhere to hair
and eyes). The polymer solidifies into a form fitting
body armor fabric when exposed to body temperature
with the look and feel of a latex suit. Spray armor does
not work on synthetic morphs or on clothing or other
armor. The color and feel of the armor can be adjusted





with electric currents and additional polymers, making
it popular among some socialite and nightlife scenes.
The spray-on armor does not wash off, but degrades
1 point of armor (both energy and kinetic) every 12
hours. It may be removed with a special nanotech
solvent. Spray armor has an Armor Value of 2/2. [Low]


ARMOR MODs


Armor modifications add extra materials or coatings
that either enhance the armor’s resistance to certain
dangers or provide other effects. Armor mods may
be easily added or removed with the appropriate
nanobot applicators.

Ablative Patches: These thin and light slap-on
patches of stick to armor and are designed to absorb
heat and energy from beams and explosions, safely
vaporizing and blowing hot gas away. Ablative
patches increases the Armor Value by +4/+2, but each
hit reduces both the energy and kinetic value of the
ablative armor by 1. [Trivial]

Chameleon Coating: This provides the armor with
the same effect as the chameleon cloak (p. 315). [Trivial]

Fireproofing: Fireproofing includes the addition of
heat-resistant ceramic or fire-resistant layers, both
capable of withstanding extremely high temperatures.
Fireproofing increases the Armor Value by +2/+0, and
provides an additional 10 points of armor against
heat or fire specifically. [Trivial]

Immunogenic System: The immunogenic mod adds
an active nanobot swarm, maintained by a specialized
hive, that coats the outer layer of armor and also the
non-armored parts of the wearer’s morph. It acts as
an outer immune system designed to neutralize toxic
agents and nanotoxins with which it comes into
contact. This provides immunity to drugs, toxins, and
nanotoxins applied dermally, such as with a slap patch
or splash grenade. It has no effect on inhaled, oral, or
injected drugs (including coated weapons). [Low]

Lotus Coating: The armor has been impregnated
with a superhydrophic coating (contact angle of
around 170°) that repels all water-like liquids. If the
armor is splashed by liquid toxins or chemicals, the
effect is reduced since the liquids starts to roll off the
armor. Apply a +30 modifier when defending against
liquid-based attacks. [Trivial]


———%}:





Offensive Armor: When activated, the outer layer
of this armor is rigged to shock anyone or anything
that contacts it with electricity. Treat as a shock
attack, p. 204. [Low]

Reactive Coating: A thick layer of advanced
nanotech is applied to the armor, protecting it with
a colony of nanobots designed to sense incoming
attacks. When an attack strikes the coating, it deto-
nates to disrupt the attack. Bursts and full autofire are
treated as a single attack. A reactive coating increases
the Armor Value by +5/+5, but each detonation auto-
matically inflicts 1 point of damage on the wearer.
Reactive armor also works against melee attacks, but
the attacker also suffers 1d10 + 2 (round up) points of
damage per attack (armor protects) from the microex-
plosion. Reactive coating only works against 5 attacks,
after which the specialized nanobot hive replenishes
the coating at the rate of 1 use per hour. [Moderate]

Refractive Glazing: A combination of reflectors,
refractive metamaterials, and an energy transfer
system with heat radiators provides extra protection
against energy weapons. Increase the Armor Value
by +3/+0. [Low]

Self-Healing: The armor is equipped with a nano-
hive that acts like repair spray (p. 333). [Moderate]

Shock Proof: Shock proof armor is electronically
insulated to discharge and reduce the effect of shock
weapons. Apply an additional +10 modifier when resist-
ing the effects of shock batons (p. 335). [Low]

Thermal Dampening: Thermal dampening obfus-
cates heat signatures by converting body heat into
electric energy. It makes the target more difficult to
spot with thermal sensors; apply a -30 modifier for
Perception Tests. [Moderate]


COMMUNICATIONS


The oldest and most widespread communications
technology still in regular use is radio. Every habitat
and world inhabited by transhumanity is awash in
radio traffic, with humans, machines, and uplifts all
constantly communicating with one another. The
smallest radios are no larger than a speck of dust
and have a range of no more than 20 meters, while
the lareest are the size Omar truck anduhaye aitange
of many thousands of miles. Radios large and small
are ubiquitous and almost all devices contain at least
short-range radios so they may interact with the
mesh. Most morphs are equipped with basic mesh
inserts (p. 300) that include an implanted radio. For
radio ranges, see p. 299.

Fiberoptic Cable: Fiberoptic cables are used to
establish wired connections between two devices.
Given the ubiquity of radios and the tangled mess
wires cause, they are typically only used for privacy
(unlike radio communication, fiberoptic signals may
not be intercepted) or in areas with heavy radio
interference. [Trivial]

Laser/Microwave Link: These portable devices
are used to establish a tight-beam, line-of-sight














SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


[-P)
Pri
I
=]


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





communications channel with another laser or
microwave link. The range of these transceivers varies
widely with environmental factors, but approximates
50 kilometers in atmosphere and 500 kilometers in
space (though horizon limits must be kept in mind,
being 5 kilometers at ground level on Earth and less
on smaller bodies). Lasers are subject to interference
from fog, dirt, smoke, and similar visual chaff, while
microwaves may be hindered by metallic obstructions.
These links may only be intercepted by getting directly
in between the beams. Some teams carry a micro
version of this system, worn on their person, allowing
line of sight intra-team communications that cannot
be intercepted like radio. [Moderate]

Radio Booster: This device boosts the range and
sensitivity of short-range radios, like those from
implants, ectos, or microbugs. The booster must be
with the shorter-ranged device’s range (or directly
linked via fiberoptic cable). It will repeat any trans-
missions received from that device, but at its extended
range of 25 kilometers in urban areas (250 kilometers
remote areas). Broadcasts from a radio booster are
easy to receive by anyone looking for broadcasts (see
Wireless Scanning, p. 251), though transmissions may
be stealthed (p. 252). Boosters are commonly used by
characters traveling far from habitats or other civi-
lized regions. [Low]


NEUTRINO COMMUNICATORS


Neutrinos are particles that can pass through any
solid matter with ease and are impossible to block. As
a result, they make an ideal medium for communica-
tions. Unfortunately, they are also easy to intercept.
Even a tight beam of neutrinos sent between two
locations can be intercepted simply by placing another
receiver behind the location the broadcaster is sending
to. Neutrino communicators require a large power
plant to power the high energy particle interactions


required to generate the neutrino broadcast. Neutrino
receivers are also relatively large, with the smallest
occupying 100 cubic meters. In most cases, neutrino
communicators are designed to broadcast neutrinos
in all directions, though tight-beam transmissions are
also possible. Quite often neutrino communications
take advantage of quantum farcasting for security.

Neutrino Transceiver: This transceiver is capable of
generating and receiving neutrino signals at a range of
at least 100 astronomical units. It is large, with a size
of 8 cubic meters (in a cube 2 meters on a side), but
they can be loaded onto large vehicles. To function, it
must be connected to a large power plant, such as one
found in habitats or large spacecraft. The cost and
size of this device includes the computer necessary for
quantum farcasting. [Expensive]


QUANTUM FARCASTERS


Quantum farcasters are special computers designed to
protect a communications channel (such as fiberoptic,
radio, laser/microwave, or neutrino) with unbreak-
able encryption. To function, two or more quantum
farcaster computers must first be entangled together
(on a quantum level) in the same physical location.
The farcasters may then be separated, at which point
they may continue to exchange encrypted data via
quantum teleportation. This data exchange requires
a standard communications link (fiberoptic, radio,
laser/microwave, or neutrino), and so is limited by
the speed of light, but it is a high bandwidth form
of communications. The quantum encryption used
by these entangled farcasters is unbreakable, and any
attempted interception is immediately detected and
neutralized. A quantum farcaster may not be used to
securely communicate with any farcasters other than
the ones it is entangled with.

Because it is exceptionally safe and secure, quantum
farcasting via neutrino communications is the primary








means of both long-distance communication between
habitats and egocasting (p. 275). The neutrino signal
cannot be blocked and it can only be decrypted if a
character has access to the computer that is sending
or receiving the signal.

Miniature Radio Farcaster: Miniature farcast-
ers communicate with each other using standard
radio transceivers. As noted above, they may only
securely communicate with the other farcasters with
which they are entangled. Most miniature farcasters
are worn as jewelry or fitted into clothing or other
equipment. [Low]


QUANTUM ENTANGLED COMMUNICATION


The rarest form of communications is quantum
entangled (QE) communication. QE communication
is instantaneous and works over any distance, but is
also very limited. QE communication requires pairs
of entangled particles known as qubits. To use QE,
large number of pairs of qubits are created and then
separated from each other. Millions of these sepa-
rated pairs of particles are stored in special containers
known as qubit reservoirs. If two QE communicators
each have a qubit reservoir containing qubits that are
each entangled with qubits in the other communica-
tor’s qubit reservoir, then characters can use the two
QE communicators to commutate with one another
instantaneously. Characters can use QE to instantly
communicate between any two locations, even if one
character is in the solar system and the other has
passed through a Pandora gate and is standing on a
planet 500 light years away.

Each bit of data transmitted between these two QE
comms uses up one qubit. Once all of the qubits are
used up, the two QE comms can no longer communi-
cate with each other until they each get a new batch
of entangled qubits. Qubits are expensive to produce,
contain, and transport, making this an exceed-
ingly expensive form of communication. As a result,
extremely high bandwidth communications like full
sensory AR and egocasting cannot be performed using
QE communication.

Portable QE Comm: This is a handheld FTL com-
munications device. The actual communications
unit can be made as small as desired, but must be
large enough to connect to or hold a qubit reservoir.
Because qubit reservoirs are relatively large and must
be replaced, they are rarely implanted. Some min-
iature farcasters are designed so that users can also
attach qubit reservoirs to enable them to be used for
both light speed and FTL communication. [Low]

Low-Capacity Qubit Reservoir: Low-capacity qubit
reservoirs can be used for 10 hours of high-resolution
video conferencing or meshbrowsing and 100 hours
of voice or text only communications. [High]

High-Capacity Qubit Reservoir: High-capacity qubit
reservoirs can be used for 100 hours of high-resolution
video conferencing or meshbrowsing and 1,000 hours
of voice or text only communications. [Expensive]








BUGS AND
SURVEILLAN


Though surveillance technologi pervasive





easy to put i


aa
=





ee a 2
J fo 1 Oi Ge SULPIC


———





These technologies allow characters to acquire pro-
tected information and to gain access to places that
others try to keep them out of. Many of these devices
are mesh-capable and equipped with radios, see p. 299
for radio ranges.

Chameleon Cloak: This loose, poncho-like cloak
contains a network of sensors that perceive wave-
lengths from microwave to ultra-violet. A similar
network of miniature emitters precisely replicate the
information its sensors receive, making the wearer
seem transparent to those wavelengths. A chameleon
cloak allows a character to effectively become invis-
ible as long as they are stationary or not moving faster
than a slow walk. When worn by someone moving
faster, the cloak still provides a +30 modifier to
Infiltration Tests to avoid being seen or noticed.

Chameleon cloaks are not effective against radar,
x-ray, or gamma-ray sensors. They do hide the char-
acter from thermal infrared, however, by absorbing
the character’s body heat into its heat sink. The cloak
can only absorb a character’s body heat for one hour
before it must emit this heat. Heat emission also
requires one hour, during which time the character is
easily visible in the thermal infrared spectrum. [Low]

Covert Operations Tool (COT): This handheld
device is the ultimate in infiltration technology. It con-
tains both smart matter micromanipulators, cutting














SYNOPSIS


om


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





tools, and an advanced nanotechnology generator
capable of producing nanobots that can bore or cut
through almost any material and disable or open
almost any electronic lock.

Cutting out a lock or boring a 1-millimeter hole in
a wall with a COT requires ((Durability + Armor) +
10) seconds. Cutting out a 1-meter diameter hole in
a wall requires ((Durability + Armor) + 10) minutes.
These same nanobots can later be used to repair this
damage so that it is invisible to any but the most
careful and detailed examination.

A COT can easily open any old-fashioned mechani-
cal lock simply by analyzing it and shaping an
appropriate key, though this takes a full Action Turn.
It can also open electronic locks by infiltrating them
with nanobots that influence the lock’s electronics,
no matter what authentication system the lock uses.
Opening electronic locks takes a full Action Turn, but
success is practically guaranteed. Opening an elec-
tronic lock in this manner will, however, trigger an
alarm and/or be logged as an event. For more details,
see Electronic Locks, p. 291. [High]

Cuffband: This smart plastic loop restricts around
a prisoner’s limbs when activated. If the prisoner
struggles, it will tighten more. Cuffbands will inform
the user if they are cut or loosened and are electroni-
cally controlled, so the user can release the prisoner
remotely. Some cuffband variants including a shock
system (treat as a shock attack, p. 204.) to zap and
restrain unruly prisoners. [Low]

Dazzler: The dazzler is a tiny laser system set on
a rotating ball. When activated, it consistently spins
and emits laser pulses in all directions. These laser
pulses are not dangerous, but they detect the lenses
of camera systems (including specs, viewers, and bot/
synthmorph sensors) and repeatedly zap them with
laser pulses of varying strength to overload and dazzle
them. For as long as a dazzler is active, any camera
system (visual, infrared, and ultraviolet) within line
of sight and within 200 meters is blinded. [Moderate]

Disabler: This handy device emits an overloading
surge that completely incapacitates and disables a
synthetic morph or pod (anything with a cyberbrain)
when it is plugged into an access jack and activated.
The affected cyberbrain will be unable to function
until the signal is deactivated, effectively shutting
down the ego (or AJ). In order to plug a disabler into
an unwilling target, the target must first be grappled
or a called shot must be successfully made in melee
combat. This device does not work on larger syn-
thetic morphs (like vehicles) or on cyberbrainless
robots.[High|

Fiber Eye: This is a flexible and electronically con-
trollable length of fiberoptic cable and viewer, which
can be worked through cracks, under doors, and
around corners to peep unobtrusively. [Low]

Invisibility Cloak: This cloak is made of metama-
terials with a negative refractive index, so that light
actually bends around it, making it and anything it
covers invisible. This invisibility works from the


microwave to ultraviolet spectrums, but not against
radar or x-rays. The drawback is that anything con-
cealed within the cloak can’t see out. This is easily
overcome by using external sensor feeds (if available)
and entoptics to navigate. Alternately, a small piece of
anti-cloak, which cancels the cloak’s invisibility prop-
erties when touched together, can be used to create a
small window to peep out of, though this increases
the chance of being spotted. Noticing such a window
requires a Perception Test with a —-30 modifier. [High]

Microbug: This device is a tiny camera and micro-
phone 1 millimeter across. It has the visual capabili-
ties of a set of specs (p. 326). It can hear everything
within 20 meters and see everything within the same
range that is in its line of sight. A microbug can record
up to 100 hours of information. Microbugs can be
set to broadcast continuously, at set intervals, or only
when they receive a special signal. If desired, they
can also be set to only record if there is movement
or voices in the room they are in. Microbugs have
adhesive backs and can stick to almost any surface.
Microbugs can also establish their location via mesh
positioning or GPS, and so double as tracking devices.
To avoid being detected by their radio transmissions,
some microbugs are attached to miniature quantum
farcasters (p. 315). These microbugs are much larger
(1 centimeter) and easy to see, but their transmis-
sions cannot be detected or blocked. [Trivial, Low for
quantum farcaster bugs]

Prisoner Mask: This hood tightens around the
head of a prisoner, blocks all vision frequencies, and
engages in low-level jamming in order to prevent any
wireless communication via mesh inserts. [Moderate]

Psi Jammer: This device jams frequencies used by
brainwaves within a 20-meter radius. This has no effect
on brain functions, but it does prevent any ranged used
of psi sleights within this area of effect. [Moderate]

Quantum Computer: These advanced devices
make use of quantum computation, allowing them
to handle extremely large numbers with ease. This
makes them especially useful for codebreaking, as
noted on p. 254. [Expensive]

Smart Dust: This device is a walnut-sized special-
ized nanobot generator that creates tiny sensor nano-
bots, each one of which is a tiny sphere the diameter
of a human hair. A packet of smart dust nanobots is
sufficient to perform detailed surveillance on a large
room like an auditorium has a volume of 1 cubic
centimeter and contains 3 million nanobots. Each
nanobot contains tiny cameras, microphones, a tiny
computer, a radio, and chemical sensors, as well as
short legs that allow them to walk and climb at a rate
of 5 cm per second.

When a character dumps a packet of smart dust in
a room, it will cover every surface in the room within
20 minutes, including all furniture and the insides of
every drawer and other space that is not airtight. At
this point, the smart dust has recorded all data about
the room that can be obtained by exceedingly detailed
observation, including the DNA of everyone who has


















ES —_ a


visited the room in the last week or two. The smart
dust can then either broadcast a brief, highly com-
pressed signal, or it can send all of its information
to a few hundred nanobots that then walk to a pre-
arranged destination for pickup and downloading by
their user. The user need only find a single nanobot
with a nanodetector to acquire the information
obtained by the smart dust. If ordered to do so, the
remaining nanobots can either power down and await
further orders or self-destruct in a fashion that turns
them into a tiny amount of dust made mostly of metal
and silicon. [Moderate]

Traction Pads: This set of specialized fingerless
gloves, shoes, and kneepads is designed to emulate the
pads on geckos’ feet. Characters can support them-
selves on a wall or ceiling by placing any two of these
pads against any surface not made from a material
specially designed to resist such devices. Characters
can climb any surface and move easily across walls
and ceilings that can support their weight (+30 to
Climbing Tests). In addition to climbing, these devices
are also very popular in zero-g environments. Wearing
this item does not impair the user’s agility or manual
dexterity. [Low]

White Noise Machine: This small and wearable
device generates masking sounds that protect a con-
versation from being audibly recorded or overheard
by anyone not in the immediate vicinity. [Trivial]

X-Ray Emitter: This device is designed to be used
with either the enhanced vision augmentation (p. 301)
or specs (p. 326). It emits a focused beam of low-
powered x-rays that allows the user of either device to
both see and see through most objects using backscat-
ter x-ray radiation (p. 303). This allows the character
to literally see through walls and into containers,
including ones made of metal. [Low]


DRUGS, CHEMICALS, AND TOnts


In Eclipse Phase, the transhuman desire to enhance
the body and mind—especially with chemicals—
merges right into humanity’s popular pastime of
recreational substance abuse. Drugs of all kinds,
whether they be chemical, nano-based, or electronic,
are not only popular but widespread. While advances
in biotechnology have eliminated many of the side
effects that once plagued drug users, transhuman
bodies remain complicated environments, and so side
effects (especially with long-term use) are still a factor.
Additionally, addiction is always a consideration for
anyone who gets comfortable with popping the same
pills too often, though there are also drugs for addic-
tion of course.

Drug descriptions include benefits, side effects,
noticeable signs that a person is using the drug, addic-
tiveness, and effects from long-term use). Descriptions
also include the drug’s Duration and its Addiction
Modifier (see Addiction and Substance Abuse).


———E—E——”_—E>_ TE.


SUBSTANCE RULES


These rules explain how to handle drugs and toxins.


CLASSIFICATION OF SUBSTANCES


Substances fall into four categories:

Chemicals: These are pharmacologically active
small chemical compounds (toxins, pharmaceuticals,
chemical drugs) that have been produced by chemi-
cal synthesis, nanotech fabrication, or enzymatic
biosynthesis in (transgenic) organisms. They include
naturally occurring drugs from known species of
(exo-)flora and fauna, endotoxins produced by
biological organisms, enhancements of endogenic
substances (designer drugs), and de novo develop-
ments designed for a specific medical or recreational
application. Chemical drugs affect only biological
morphs and pods.

Biologicals: These include peptides, hormones, and
biologically based substances like biotoxins, bacteria,


and viral organisms—drugs devised or based on natu- ~~


rally occurring endogenic biological substances. This
category also includes infectious biological organisms
that can produce drug-like effects, like viruses and
bacteria. Biologicals affect biomorphs and pods but
not synthetic morphs or infomorphs.

Nanodrugs: These are temporary nanobot colonies
programmed to create a certain effect. While nano-
bots are generally able to target or infect all morph
types except infomorphs, exactly which morphs are
affected usually depends on the pre-programmed
effect (i.e., whether it targets a biological or mechani-
cal mechanism).

Electronic: Electronic drugs include software and
technology that affect the brain directly, such as
manipulative XP programs or retro-tech like transcra-
nial magnetic stimulation or cranial electrotherapy. It
also includes narcoalgorithms—programs that repro-
duce drug-like effects for Als, infomorphs, and egos
residing in cyberbrains.


APPLICHTION METHODS


There are number of vectors by which a substance
may be applied to a morph.

Dermal (D): This drug or toxin is absorbed via
the skin (or exterior hull with some nanotoxins) as
either a gas, liquid, or solid (e.g., paste). Slap patches
and slap bands are commonly used, loaded with the
chemical DMSO, which transfers the drug through
the skin.

Inhalation (INH): This is a gas that is breathed into
the lungs or snorted nasally. Used for inhalers, aero-
sols, powders, and gas grenades/seekers.

Injected (INJ): This liquid is applied via either
an intramuscular or intravenous injection. Used for
needles and piercing weapons.

Oral (O): This is a liquid or solid that is absorbed
through the stomach or oral cavity (eating or drink-
ing). Used with pills and liquids.































SYNOPSIS


nf


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


DRUG EFFECTS


If a character is exposed to a drug via its method of
application—for example, they pop a pill, slap on
a dermal patch, are soaked with a splash grenade,
breathe in gas, or get stabbed with a coated weapon—
then they are subject to the drug’s effects. The onset
time determines how long these effects take to kick in,
and the duration determines how long they last.

While there is no resistance test to ignore a drug or
toxin’s effects once exposed, in some cases (especially
toxins) a test might be called for to determine the
severity of the effects.

Unless otherwise noted or specifically overridden,
medichines (p. 308) will protect a character from
drug/toxin effects (but not nanodrugs/nanotoxins).
Enhancements like toxin filters (p. 305) may also
impede a drug’s effect or provide complete resistance.
If an antidote is taken in advance or before the effects
kick in, the drug will not work.


ADDICTION AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE


Some drugs are addictive, either physically (affect-
ing the morph) or mentally (affecting the ego)—and
sometimes both. Every time a character uses the drug
(or after an appropriate amount of use, as determined
by the gamemaster), they must make a WIL x 3 Test to
avoid addiction. Each drug has an Addiction Modifier
that will modify this test.

Failure indicates that the character has become
addicted—they immediately acquire the Addiction
negative trait (p. 148). Addiction is measured in three
levels: Minor, Moderate, and Major. The severity deter-
mines how often an addicted character needs the drug
and what the negative effects of not using the drug are.

An addicted character must continue to make
WIL x 3 Tests as they use the drug, as determined
by the gamemaster. Failure indicates the character’s
addiction severity increases.

Addiction is of indefinite duration. To clean up, the
character must stay off the drug for 1 week for each
level of addiction. Resisting this craving is difficult,
and should at least require another WIL x 3 Test,
modified by the drug’s Addiction modifier. Players
and gamemasters are encouraged to roleplay an
attempt to kick a habit. Each week the character is
off the drug, the addiction drops by one level. When
it reaches 0, the Gharacter is clean ... though there is
always danger of a relapse.

Physical addictions do not carry over to a new
morph if the character resleeves, but mental addic-
tions do. If the character uploads and resleeves, the
mental addictions persist, and the morph the charac-
ter leaves behind remains physically addicted. This
means that poor or unlucky characters may occa-
sionally find themselves resleeved into a morph that
has a physical addiction. In this case, the character
is subject to the physical addictiveness of the drug
but not the mental addiction, although if they break
down and indulge in the drug, they may themself
become physically addicted.


Characters who resleeve as infomorphs can
remain mentally addicted to a substance despite no
longer having a body. The market is always happy to
provide, though; a wide variety of narcoalgorithms
mirroring the effects of most of the drugs described
below are available for infomorphs and Als. For the
infomorph-ported narcoalgorithm version of any
physically addictive drug described below, consider
the Addictiveness to be effectively mental.


DRUGS


The drugs described here are usually (but not always
beneficial), and are typically taken intentionally. Drugs
and chemicals used offensively are described under
Chemicals and Toxins, both on p. 323.

Note that the drugs here are just a representative
sampling. There are thousands if not millions of
drugs in circulation in Eclipse Phase—gamemasters
are encouraged to introduce their own, using these
as guidelines.


COGNITIVE DRUGS


Nootropics and similar drugs are intended to boost
the user’s mental faculties.

Drive: This nootropic speeds up left-right brain
hemisphere communication, stimulates idea produc-
tion, and improves concentration, with no usual side
effects. Users receive a +5 bonus to COG while the
drug lasts. [Low]

Klar: Klar boosts alertness and enhances clarity and
perception. Users report a feeling of being “elevated”
to a higher level. They receive +5 INT while the drug
lasts. [Low]

Neem: Neem is a mnemonic drug that works by
“tagging” experiences and mental input with a set of
unique sensations that contribute to the formation
of state-based memories. Neem gummy chews come
in a variety of fruit flavors shaped like extinct old
Earth animals. Neem gives characters a +20 bonus
on COG Tests to recall information they learned
while on Neem (see Memorizing and Remembering,
p. 175). The drawback to Neem is that memories they
accumulate while under the drug’s influence have no
emotional association. For example, a character who
witnessed something horrible happening to a friend
or who had a fight with a romantic partner while on
Neem would feel no emotional connection whatsoever
to what happened. [Moderate]


COMBAT DRUGS


Combat drugs are an easy way of evening the odds
in a fight.

BringlIt: In some respects more a social than a
combat drug, BringIt stimulates massive bursts of
aggression pheromones designed to make the user
the center of attention in a fight. In combat, oppo-
nents within 3 meters of the character not already
in unarmed or melee combat with another character
must pass a WIL x 3 Test or attack the character
using BringIt. The nature of airborne pheromones is








imprecise, however, so if the character using BringIt
is within 1 meter of another character hostile to the
character affected, the affected character may opt to
attack the proximate character instead of the Bringlt
user. Characters using this drug suffer a -20 modifier
on social skill tests. [Low]

Grin: Grin is an effective opiate and pain suppres-
sant. Users may ignore the modifiers from 2 wounds
(not cumulative with similar effects) and in fact may
not even be aware they are injured. Grin users suffer
from tunnel vision, however, and so suffer a —10
modifier on Perception Tests. [Low]

Kick: Kick is a strong stimulant that increases the
user’s response time and puts them on edge. The
character gains +10 REF and +1 Speed for the dura-
tion of the drug. Characters under the influence of
Kick are twitchy, however, reacting in a jumpy, cat-
like fashion to sudden or unexpected stimuli. At the
gamemaster’s discretion, they must make a WIL x 2
Test or react without thinking towards unexpected
noises or other surprises. Long-term users suffer —5
COO. [Moderate]

MRDR: MRDR is a straightforward and brutal
combat drug. It increases pain tolerance, speed, and
strength. The character receives +10 SOM, +1 Speed,
+10 Durability, and may ignore the modifier from one
wound. Any damage incurred while under the effects
of the drug is taken from the bonus Durability first.
MRDR users are easily identifiable by the broken
blood vessels in their eyes, tense posture, and visible
tension in the muscles of the face, arms, and legs.
Long-term users suffer —5 SOM. [Low]

Phlo: Phlo increases alertness and coordination,
making the user more graceful and nimble in a fray.
The character gains +5 COO and +10 on Perception


Tests for the duration of the drug. Everything feels


possible to a character on Phlo, and so they are vul-
nerable to being goaded into actions that might be
foolish or dangerous (apply a -10 modifier to appro-
priate Social Skill Tests). [Moderate]


HEALTH DRUGS


Pharma-foods that boost the consumer’s health and
physical state are common.

Bananas Furiosas: This drug reverses some of the
effects of de-ionizing radiation on the cells of the
body. Although a pill form is available, it most com-
monly comes in large bunches of bright orange-red
bananas. Bananas reduce the severity of a radiation
dosage (gamemaster determines effect). [Low]

Comfurt: This tasty yogurt treat blocks stress hor-
mones, stabilizes mood, and relieves anxiety, allowing
them to ignore the effect of 1 trauma and temporarily
boosting Lucidity by +5. Any stress suffered while the
drug is in effect is taken from the bonus Lucidity first.
Comfurt also provides a +10 bonus when resisting
attempts to manipulate the user’s emotions. Excessive
use of Comfurt can lead to chronic itchiness caused by
histamine release. [Low]














SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH






REFERENCE








RECREATIONAL DRUGS


These drugs compete with petals (p. 322) and black
market XP for wasting people’s time and lives away.

Buzz: This gene-modified variant of BZ is an odor-
less, invisible, extremely powerful hallucinogen. Users or
affected characters will undergo extremely realistic hal-
lucinations for the duration, and may even “share” hal-
lucinations with other affected characters. Characters
will suffer a -30 modifier to any tests to remember what
occurred while under the influence. [Moderate]

Mono No Aware: Taken from the Japanese term
for sadness at the ephemerality of worldly things, this
drug, typically ingested as a tea, is a depressant that
induces a meditative state. Mono No Aware gives the
character a +10 bonus on Art and Sense Tests. With
frequent use, Mono No Aware reacts with pigments
in the skin to create a pallor with a slight bluish tinge,
even in darker-skinned morphs. [Low]

Orbital Hash: Good ol’ reefer—but grown in space
using powerful lighting and post-singularity hydro-
ponics. Because space is at a premium in habitats and
scum barges, blocks of hashish are the preferred mode
of transport and delivery. However, for the wealthy
and on planets, buds in leaf form are not uncommon.
Hash allows the character to ignore the effects of 1
trauma, but inflicts a -10 penalty on all memory-
related tests and Knowledge Skill Tests. Hash users
exhibit bloodshot eyes, lethargic behaviors, and the
munchies. [Low]


SOCIAL DRUGS


These social lubricants affect the user’s interactions
with others.

Alpha: Alpha is a more subtle version of Bringlt,
popular with hypercorp execs, street thugs, and
anyone else who wants to come across as a domineer-
ing asshole. The pharm designer who invented it had
a retro sensibility (and maybe a sick sense of humor);
Alpha is typically synthesized as a sparkling white
powder designed to be snorted. Alpha stimulates
production of threat pheromones, but less bluntly
than BringIt. Alpha imparts confidence, a feeling of
power, and alertness. Users can function without sleep
for 4 days, after which point they need to catch up
with at least 4 hours of sleep (remember morphs with
basic biomods require less sleep). Dosed characters
receive a +20 modifier on Intimidation Tests and +10
on Persuasion and Networking Tests where attitude is
a factor (gamemaster discretion). These bonuses only
apply to characters within 2 meters of the Alpha user.

On the downside, alpha users are impatient, unfo-
cused assholes. At the gamemaster’s discretion, Social
skill modifiers may be reversed to penalties with
certain types of people. Additionally, Alpha users
suffer -10 on all COG skill tests related to memory
and coherent or logical thinking. Long-term users may
suffer the COG penalty even when not on the drug;
on it, they may be worse. [High]

Hither: Want to ooze sexy like a pleasure morph
on a hot tin roof? For those desiring that slinky


DRUGS


TYPE APPLICATION ONSET TIME DURATION ADDICTION MODIFIER ADDICTION TYPE


Cognitive Drugs


Drive hem OO minutes Shouse Mental


Klar | 7 | 20 minutes 8 hours - oe Mental


Neer i 20 minutes 12hours Mental


Combat Drugs


Bringit Bio. Inhy In, A minute 15 minutes #10 Physical


Gin nh, Inj,O__3.Action Turns 3 hours 10 Physical


Kick == Chem = Inh, Inj, © 3 Action Turns


MRDR 0

Pho = Chem sO
Health Drugs
Bananas Furiosas


Comfurt Bio O20 minutes


| Recreational Drugs


Mono No Aware


‘Orbital Hash Chem Ih 3 minutes


Social Drugs


Alpha 7 inh s T minute~
Juice 20 minutes


20 minutes
20 minutes


20 minutes |


20 minutes





2hous = 10S Physical
Thou 10 Physical
TROUT occ Physical


i ee ed ee


I2hous 10 Metal


36 hours Metal


Shous = 10 =“ Meental


3hours = Meet


2 hours ~ 10 Mental
6hours TO Physical
8 hours Mental








je-ne-sais-quoi, Hither is the tool. Hither is a clear,
slippery gel, sometimes with a faint, musky, floral
scent. Hither is applied to parts of the body with
large concentrations of sweat glands, where the
skin quickly absorbs it. Hither is a mild euphoriant,
imparting a feeling of confidence and you-know-you-
want-it-ness to the user. It also stimulates abundant
production of lust pheromones. The character gains
a +10 bonus on Persuasion Tests against targets who
are possible to seduce. At the gamemaster’s discre-
tion, this extends to Deception, Impersonate, and
Networking Tests. [Low]

Juice: This potent anti-depressant makes it almost
impossible to have bad feelings or negative thoughts.
The character is unnaturally happy—often irritat-
ingly or strangely so. The character receives a +30
bonus against fear or attempts to manipulate their
emotions in a negative direction, but is also likely
to act inappropriately, like giggling over the massive
amount of spilled blood or cheerfully changing the
subject to inane topics when someone else is freaking
out. [Low]


NANODRUGS


Nanodrugs are temporary nanobot infestations that
apply a specific effect.

Frequency: Frequency (or Freeq) is a nanodrug
designed as a tool for scientific visualization. It
releases a small swarm of nanobots into the charac-
ter’s bloodstream that settle in the epidermis, where
they act as sensors of electromagnetic radiation. This
sensory input is then injected into the character’s
visual and tactile sensoria, hitting the user with a
sequence of novel stimuli, typically a light show or
weird tactile sensations. Aside from its recreational
uses, Frequency is good at picking up on localized
field radiation with a standard Perception Test. A
character can take advantage of this to spot sensors
and hidden electronics. Similar to now-obsolete
20th-century hallucinogens like LSD and psilocy-
bin, however, a Frequency trip can be disorienting
and upsetting (the gamemaster should apply any
modifiers, mental stress, or even trauma as they
feel appropriate). Characters typically experience a
period about 1/3 of the way through their trip in
which sensory input is extremely intense; during this
period, which usually lasts about 2 hours, they are
unable to read. [Moderate]

Gravy: Gravy assists characters in acclimating to
high gravity environments. It comes in a variety of


Frequency Nano Inj, O

Gravy Nano Inj, O
| Petals Nano 0

Schizo Nano Inj





OTHER NAN


INF-Vatexe faere lm ar-hic= the Ca


are too numerous to
J aQolul te Maelo al-ifel-Tamr-lire


Direction Sense, Mat
Psi Chameleon, Psi Defense,
=ness, Tough, Feel
ce, Mental Disc


Jamage, Psi V





flavors and is often added as a sauce to food. For
Gravy to be 100% effective, the character must begin
using it in advance. Reduce penalties for high-gravity
acclimation by 20. [Low]

Schizo: Schizo is a nanodrug that mirrors the
effects of paranoid schizophrenia. It is popular in
some hyperelite social circles as a truly daring and
intriguing experience. A dose of schizo looks like a
disposable antique razor blade. Making an incision
in the skin releases a swarm of nanobots that travel
to the central nervous system and induce the effects
of the drug. While in effect, the character is severely
paranoid and hears voices. How this plays out is at
the discretion of the gamemaster, but should include
irrational fears, unusual compulsions based on the
instructions of the voice or voices, and a strong pos-
sibility that the character will behave in a violent or
destructive fashion. The character may make WIL x 3
Tests to avoid violent acts against objects or strangers.
Friends and trusted acquaintances are probably less
likely to be targets of violence (+30 modifier to avoid
hurting people the character cares about or destroy-
ing important possessions). Note that the character’s
muse is unaffected by Schizo and can make efforts
to babysit the character. Characters who take Schizo
suffer 1d10 mental stress. [Low]


8 hours —10 Mental
special — =

2 hours—1 day +10 to -20 Mental

1 day = Mental








SAMPLE PETALS





==


GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE





@yal=meyi the chara ers
PM AViain clan i oalal-wce
ikem al=le-(e male)

e-Valatoyan ol-ee=

believe that it’
character am


A few examples of Petal experiences:


————


=F


: liryare and firmly
Wan Na\-Mat-lare MAY m(=t-vom vars
— Ss


—


mm @ | wslohioh mom Oloticnr


——— =
ae al a ote i


Shae
' a | TnAa '


=<





series oT st


ST


a


PETALS


Petals is a term for a type of narrative hallucinogen,
a nanodrug that hijacks the senses and takes the user
on a game-like, highly immersive trip. Known by a
myriad of intriguing names—Forgotten Hand, Darkly
Selving, Inquisitive Green, to name a few—Petals are
post-Fall society’s heroin—the drug of choice for the
desperate and fucked. Petals almost always appear as
nanopharmaceutical flowers, potted or with a nutrient
pack attached to the stem. Plucking and swallowing
the petals from the flower triggers the effects imme-
diately. Flowers have 5-10 petals. Multiple users may
share the experience if they take the Petals within 1
minute of the first one being plucked; after this all
petals remaining on the flower fade to translucent
white and become inert.

Petal experiences are like entire scenarios in and of
themselves. Some take place entirely in the user’s mesh
inserts (the user must cede control of their implants
voluntarily; if they do not, the drug has no effect other
than producing very low-intensity LSD-like visual


aches and makes’
nscious and able |
world, but they


YAY of ALO} Ci









(







— el
71 Gn Blure | BEES
SS 4


g a goal before their forks.


a i }


raat=yaalel=)ame)





enlightenment begt


rwal 4 a ~ 4 a
aeam@lael* re WHI , S] ers











hallucinations), taking control of the character’s entop-
tic displays, linking to secretive mesh servers and other
trippers, and invading the character’s sensorium with
AR “hallucinations.” Others put the character into a
near-comatose state during which they go on a head
trip. Normally there is some kind of well-developed
theme or plot to a Petal experience, although in some
cases they just experience a stream of images.

Though most societies seek to suppress Petals, new
ones appear constantly, fueled by a persistent sub-
culture of crafters and users. Petalcrafters view their
work as an art form (or at least as really good enter-
tainment), and the better Petals are lovingly crafted,
hauntingly beautiful experiences—even if they’re also
terrifying. The subculture of Petal use ranges from
casual users who occasionally do an easy, short-dura-
tion flower to hardcore addicts who spend much of
their time not on Petals trying to hunt down the most
intense and esoteric varieties. From this subculture
comes a lot of information on what various Petals
look like and their effects. Because Petals combine






-_ :


— a





custom nanobots with tailored chemical payloads and
sometimes connections to mesh servers, duplicating
them using fabricators is impossible, leading to an
active market of crafters, dealers, and traders.

Petals sometimes contain easter eggs and rewards,
called “sweets” by petal users. Getting the sweets
usually requires fulfilling certain conditions within the
trip, such as correctly answering questions or fulfilling
goals. Typical sweets include skillsofts, new clothing
or product designs, and custom infomorph sleeves.

On the negative side, some Petal trips go bad,
inflicting 1d10 mental stress or more on the user.
Perhaps worse, some Petals are loaded with malware
that takes over the user’s mesh inserts and worse—
some sentinels even whisper of Petals carrying strains
of the exsurgent virus. [Trivial to High]


NARCORLGORITHMs


Narcoalgorithms are software programs that simulate
the effects of drugs on biological bodies. Almost all
bio, chemical, and nano drugs can be replicated as
narcoalgorithms, with corresponding effect (game-
master discretion). Standard duration is 3 hours.
Addiction to narcoalgorithms is considered mental.
Narcoalgorithms may be run by infomorphs, egos
encased in cyberbrains (pods and synthmorphs),
simulmorphs, and even Als.

DDR: Originally crafted by prankster hackers
and distributed as a virus, DDR (for “Dance Dance
Robot”) triggers impulses in the target’s motor
control circuits. Primary targeting robot Als, the
effect is that targets “dance” in jerky, automated
movements. Pleasure receptors are also activated so
that dancing—and movement of any kind—feels good.
Different software variants invoke different motions
and styles. The target suffers a -20 modifier on other
actions while dancing, but the dancing may be over-
ridden with a WIL x 3 Test. [Low]

Linkstate: This software actually connects the user
to a peer-to-peer network, where it randomly con-
nects to other linkstate users and samples a bit of their
XP feed and randomly accessed memories—typically
just enough to provide context, but not enough to
acquire private personal details. These inputs are
spliced together, their emotional inputs amplified,
and then the entire package is spiked with some hor-
monal circuit triggers and artificial synaesthesia. The
effect is a mind-blowing mixed sampling of people’s
lives, mashed together in a sensory soup, that hits
the mind with a euphoric rush. Linkstate users are
catatonic while under the effects (typical sessions run
3-4 hours), but afterwards they often report that they
have flashbacks of events in other people’s lives. [Low]


CHEMICALS


Atropine: Though poisonous in large doses, atropine
is an effective antidote against nerve agents like BTX?
and Nervex. Easily synthesized in a maker, atropine
will avert the effect whether taken soon before or after
dosage by a nerve agent. [Trivial]




















DMSO: This chemical acts as a carrier, allow-
ing other chemicals to be absorbed through the
skin. It allows any chemical agent to be applied
dermally. [Trivial]
Liquid Thermite: Similar to scrapper’s gel, liquid
thermite comes in a gel form that is easily applied
under all environmental conditions (by the nature
of its chemical reaction, thermite is oxygenated and
will burn underwater or in space). It is ignited with
an electric charge, burning at temperatures exceeding
2,500 degrees Celsius and melting through whatever
it is touching. Liquid thermite inflicts 3d10 + 5 DV
per Action Turn to whatever it is touching for 3 turns.
Armor will also be burnt through, offering no pro-
tection once the full Armor rating has been reached.
[Moderate]
NotWater: NotWater is an effective liquid fire retar-
dant that does not get objects wet, no matter how
absorbent they are—it simply beads up and slides
right off. [Trivial] mes,
Scrapper’s Gel: This goo turns into a potent acid ~
when given an electrical charge. It comes in a gel-like SS
state and may be smeared like jelly, and may even be
used in space. In acid form, scrapper’s gel does 1d10 a
+ 5 DV per Action Turn to anything it touches for 3 ‘
turns, unless the material has been treated against \
acid. Armor will protect against this acid at first, but
the acid will eat through the armor, so that it will
no longer protect after its full armor value has been
reached. [Low]
Slip: This liquid is almost entirely frictionless. When
spread around an area (commonly used in splash
grenades), anyone attempting to walk or run on the
affected surface must make a COO Test or fall down.
Likewise, any coated surface becomes extremely
hard to grip onto, requiring a SOM Test to hang on.
Anyone attempting to grapple a slip-soaked character
suffers a -30 modifier. [Low]
Tracker Dye: This liquid is colorless at normal light
but becomes recognizable under pre-specified different
wavelengths (such as infrared or ultraviolet). [Trivial]


TOAINS


Chemical warfare involves using the toxic properties
of biological and chemical substances to kill, injure,
or incapacitate an enemy. Note that an antidote can
be constructed for most toxins if a sample is acquired
and an appropriate Medicine or Academics Test is
made. This is considered a Task Action with a time-
frame of 1 hour. These toxins only affect biomorphs;
synthmorphs are immune.

BTX?: BTX-squared (also called Frog Bite) is a
genetically enhanced variant of the extremely potent
cardiotoxic and neurotoxic batrachotoxin. It leads to
fast paralysis and cardiac arrest that usually kills the
target within a few Action Turns. Affected characters
suffer 2d10 + 10 damage a turn for 3 Action Turns;
medichines reduce this damage by half. They must
also make a SOM ~x 2 Test (+30 with medichines) or
be paralyzed for 1 hour. [High]














SYNOPSIS


i


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


CR Gas: This potent incapacitating agent causes
eye twitching and temporary blindness, severe cough-
ing and breathing difficulty, skin irritation, and panic.
Affected characters suffer 1d10 + 2 damage, a —30
modifier to sight-based Perception Tests, and a —20
modifier to all other actions for 20 minutes (5 minutes
if the character has medichines). [Low]

Flight: This drug is derived from human pheromones
released due to fear, and is intended to instill alarm or
even terror in the character. Affected characters must
make a WIL x 3 Test (+30 with medichines) or suffer
a panic attack, inflicting 1d10 stress. Dosed characters
also suffer a -30 modifier for resisting intimidation or
fear-based emotional manipulations. Flight affects last
for 1 hour (5 minutes with medichines). [Low]

Nervex: Derived from deadly nerve agents like
cyclosarin, VX, and novichok, this genetically modi-
fied toxin is deployed as a colorless, odorless gas
that turns safely inert 10 minutes after deployment.
It causes involuntary contraction of the muscles, sei-
zures, and death by respiratory failure. One minute
after exposure, the character must make a SOM Test
or be incapacitated by seizures, paralysis, or nausea
and vomiting; unaffected characters still suffer a —20
modifier to all actions. After 10 minutes, the character
will die unless an antidote (such as atropine, p. 323) is
applied. Characters with medichines suffer the initial
effects, but recover after 5 minutes. [High]

Oxytocin-A: A genetically improved variant of
oxytocin, this drug induces trust in the recipient.
Drugged characters suffer a -30 modifier on all WIL
and Kinesics Tests where trust is a factor. Medichines
provide immunity. [Low]

Twitch: Twitch is a convulsive agent, a nonlethal
nerve gas. Affected characters must succeed in a SOM
Test (+30 with medichines) or become incapacitated
with severe muscle tremors. Unaffected characters still
suffer a —20 on all actions. The effects of Twitch last for
10 minutes, 5 if the character has medichines. [Low]


NANOTOAINS


Disruption: This nanotoxin attacks the myelin sheath
on nerves, disrupting nerve impulses and inflicting
symptoms of multiple sclerosis. Every hour the morph
suffers a -5 modifier to COO, REEF, and COG. If any
aptitudes are reduced to zero,the morph is effectively
paralyzed and catatonic. [Moderate]

Necrosis: Necrosis nanobots attack the walls of cells
inside the body, killing tissue. This nanotoxin inflicts
1d10 + 2 damage per Action Turn for one minute, after
which the nanobots disable and flush from the body.
Necrosis only affects biomorphs. [Moderate]

Neuropath: These nanobots are designed to stimu-
late the pain receptors of a morph on a systemic level
to cause agony and impairment. While most neuro-
paths target biological receptors, variants are avail-
able that induce comparable (phantom) pain stimula-
tions in the cyberbrains of synthmorphs to create an
equivalent effect. The affected character must succeed
in a WIL x 3 Test or become incapacitated. Even if


they succeed, they suffer -30 from the inflicted agony.
Any form of pain resistance that allows a character
to ignore wound modifiers will negate the neuropath
pain modifier by an appropriate amount. [Moderate]

Nutcracker: Nutcrackers are nanobots designed to
locate, migrate, and decompose the synthdiamond
case of a cortical stack within a morph by attacking
its crystal lattice. This process takes approximately
6 hours, after which the cortical stack is destroyed.
These nanobots also attack the cortical stack’s connec-
tions to the (cyber)brain and brain-mapping nanobots.
After 1 hour, the victim will be aware that their corti-
cal stack is threatened. After 3 hours, all connections
will be severed and the cortical stack will no longer be
able to back up the character. [High]


PATHOGENS


A pathogen is an infectious biological agent that
causes disease or illness to its host. While natural
pathogens rarely strive to kill their hosts, germ
warfare programs revived during the Fall—or insti-
gated by the TITANs—sought to modify and use
pathogens as a weapon of war. The ideal character-
istics of lethal biological agents are high infectivity,
high potency, availability of vaccines, and delivery as
an aerosol. Most biomorphs are immune to standard
pathogens thanks to their basic biomods, and medich-
ines will protect against most others. However, even
these defenses may not protect against diseases left
by the TITANs or a new terrorist cell’s biowar bug.
It is largely recommended that pathogens be handled
as a plot device, rather than an active threat to the
characters. Pathogens have no effect on synthmorphs.

Degen: Characters exposed to this degenerative
neurological disease must make a DUR x 2 Test or
become infected. Medichines will defeat the disease,
but others will not show signs of infection for 1 week,
when the symptoms of a rapidly progressing dementia
will become clear: memory loss, personality changes,
and hallucinations. If untreated, Degen will prog-
ress for another week with more serious symptoms,
including speech impediments, jerky movements, loss
of balance and coordination, and even seizures. This
is reflected by a 5 point loss in all aptitudes per day
(after the first week). When any aptitude reaches 0,
the character dies. Degen is notorious for its effect
in corrupting cortical stack backups before infection
symptoms manifest. [Expensive]

Trigger: Trigger is a designer virus that selectively
targets and infects mast cells to trigger a hyper-allergic
reaction. The resulting anaphylactic shock due to sys-
temic vasodilatation (associated with a sudden drop
in blood pressure) and bronchial swelling (resulting in
constriction and difficulty breathing) usually leads to
death in a matter of minutes after onset, if not treated.
Infected characters must succeed in a DUR Test (using
their current Durability score minus damage) or die
quickly. Even medichines have difficulty reacting in
time against this virus; characters with medichines
must make a DUR x 2 Test to survive. [Expensive]








a = — : — I ' oe —__—_.

























Pol DRUGS


Research into the Watts-MacLeod strain has resulted in
several exceptional breakthroughs involving the creation
of psi-impacting drugs. Each of these drugs is in the
experimental stage, but they are already finding some
use among Firewall and similar secretive groupings.

Inhibitor: Inhibitor is a cocktail of neurochemicals
that block some brain receptor and transmitter func-
tions in an attempt to reduce psi-waves and block or
impair sleights. This drug is commonly used to restrain
async prisoners from using their abilities. A drugged
character must make a WIL x 2 Test. If they fail, they
lose all psi abilities for the drug’s duration. If they
succeed, they suffer a -30 impairment on Psi skills and
all strain is doubled. Inhibitor has an unfortunate side
effect of doping the character down, however; apply
a -10 modifier to their COG. Inhibitor-influenced
characters tend to have a glazed, dopey expression and
have difficulty getting excited or emotional. [High]

Psi-Opener: Psi-opener drugs are variants of the
Watts-MacLeod strain with a temporary effect and
which do not permanently alter the user’s brain. Psi-
opener temporarily imbues the user with the ability
to use one particular sleight, regardless of whether or
not they have the Psi trait. Each type of Psi-opener is
customized for a particular sleight. While primarily
intended for non-asyncs, non-asyncs may not possess
Psi skills, so they must default to WIL. For this reason,
Psi-Opener is often doubled up with Psike-out.

Using Psi-opener is a mind-wrenching experience.
Users are occasionally subject to hallucinations
(gamemaster discretion). When the drug wears off, it
inflicts 1d10 points of mental stress, +2 if the drug
imbues a psi-gamma sleight. [Expensive]

Psike-Out: Psike-out bolsters an async’s psi abilities.
Apply a +20 modifier to the async’s Psi skill tests for
the drug’s duration. However, also apply +2 to all strain
DVs for the drug’s duration. Psike-out is mentally addic-
tive, with an Addiction Modifier of -10. [Expensive]


EVERYDAY TECHNOLOGY


The following devices are all exceptionally common
and can be acquired in almost any habitat. Almost
everyone in Eclipse Phase either owns these devices or
knows several people who do.

Ecto: Ectos are the external version of basic mesh
inserts (p. 300), minus the medical sensors. These col-
orful devices serve as a wearable mesh terminal, PDA,
locator, and camera-phone. The devices are flexible


(often worn as bracelets), dirt-resistant, self-cleaning, _


and may be stretched out to increase screen size. They
may project holographic displays and are typically
equipped with wireless-enabled glasses or contact
lenses and decorative earpieces or earrings so that the
user may access augmented reality. Given the ubiquity
of mesh inserts, ectos are growing less common, but
they are still used by bioconservatives, others without
implants, and those who prefer to access the mesh via
an external device for security concerns. [Low]


RG Gas
“‘Nervex Chem, Inh, |
Orytocin-A A Big
Nanotoxins
Degen = Nano

Necrosis _ Nano Inj, O Des
‘Nu utcracker Nano In,


‘Psike-Out. Chem Inj, O


TOXINS


TYPE APPLICATION ONSET TIME
Chemical Toxins

BTX? 1 Action Turn
7 3 Action Turns”
~ D, Inh, ths /
Ih, inj 3 minutes


Da nh nj, O


3A Action Turns
0, Inj O°


Inhibitor A


So i





1 minute


Holographic Projectors: These devices are capable
of projecting high-definition, ultra-realistic three-
dimensional images and movies. From a distance (20+
meters), such holograms can be difficult to distinguish
as fake, but up close they are easier to see for what
they are (+20 Perception Test modifier). Holograms
do not appear in wavelengths other than visual light,
and so are easily identified by anyone with enhanced
vision. [Low]

Micrograv Shoes: These shoes are equipped with
velcro and/or a magnetic system, allowing the wearer
to walk normally on appropriate surfaces in micro-
grav and zero-G environments, rather than floating or
bouncing. [Trivial]

Portable Sensor: This is a small portable (possibly
even wearable) sensor system. The type of sensor must
be chosen (for example: infrared, lidar, radar, x-ray).
Combined sensor systems are also available, at a
cumulative cost. See Radio and Sensor Ranges, p. 299.
and Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302. [Moderate]

Smart Clothing: Smart clothing can change its
color, texture, and even its cut, taking only a minute
or two to transform from a solid color jumpsuit to
a plaid party dress or a replica of a pinstriped, late
20" century business suit. It can also camouflage the
wearer, providing a +20 bonus to Infiltration Tests to
avoid being seen, as long as the wearer is stationary or
not moving faster than a slow walk, and as long as the
wearer is completely covered or also using chameleon
skin (p. 303) of the same color/pattern. If incompletely
camouflaged, or if moving faster, reduce the modifier
to +10. Smart clothing also keeps the character warm
or cool, allowing the character to exist comfortably in
environments from —40 to 70 C. [Low]

Smart Vac Clothing: Like regular smart clothing, this
outfit can also transform into a light vacsuit (p. 333).
It also functions as armor, rating 2/4. [Moderate]


1 Ac ction Tt Turn . _
1 minute —_
3 Action Turns —_
Inj, O07 — "Immediate _
Im medi iate a
2 Action Turns” a
20 minutes


DURATION


3 Action Turns/1 hour
20 minutes | |
Thur —
7 ~ death 4
2 hours. _. 4
_10 minutes a
i minute aa
hours
Shows
6 hours. eas
1 hour _ 4
“thour








ee


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE





GAME MECHANICS





CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND


HACKS


THE MESH


SYNOPSIS \





7 aes


Specs: Specs are vision-enhancing glasses. They
deliver sensory data directly into the wearer’s visual
cortex by connecting with their basic mesh inserts
(p. 300), though visual displays are available for bio-
conservatives and other characters without implants.
Specs extend the range of the wearer’s vision from
terahertz waves to gamma rays (p. 303). Specs include
a t-ray emitter (p. 306), however, using x-rays, or
gamma rays for visual purposes requires a separate
emitter, since neither of these sorts of radiation are
common inside habitats, or in any safe environments.
Specs have a variable focus equivalent to 5 power
magnifiers and provide the wearer with a +10 bonus
to all Perception Tests involving vision. [Low]

Tools: Tools come in kits (portable), shops (can fit
into a large vehicle), and facilities (large, non-mobile).
Each set of tools applies to a particular skill, such
as Hardware: Electronics or Hardware: Groundraft.
[Low (Kit), High (Shop), Expensive (Facility) ]

Utilitool: This hand tool includes a specialized
small nanobot generator. In its basic form, a utilitool
is the size and shape of a large fountain pen. It can
transform into almost any tool, however, from a
wrench, knife, or powered screwdriver to a rotary
grinder or pair of pliers. Some inexpensive utilitools
are optimized for specialized tasks, like cooking
or wilderness survival, but more expensive models
become almost any imaginable hand tool. Utilitools
are normally mentally controlled using the character’s
basic mesh inserts. Characters without such implants
can control the tool via voice commands and touch
controls. Characters using a utilitool gain a +10 modi-
fier to skills involving repairing or modifying devices
with mechanical parts, opening locks, disarming
alarm systems, or performing first aid. [Low]

Viewers: These small and highly advanced bin-
oculars possess all the visual enhancement of specs
(p. 326), but also provide 50x magnification. They
also include a directional microphone that magnifies
sound from the direction the viewers are pointed by
a factor of 50. Viewers provide the user with a +30


Sai





bonus to all Perception Tests involving vision or
hearing for the target they are aimed at. This bonus is
not cumulative with bonuses from any other device or
augmentation. [Low]


NANOTECHNOLOGY


Nanotechnology is the precise manipulation of matter
at the atomic level, typically using millions of micro-
scale nanomachines. Nanotechnology transformed
manufacturing, enabling new techniques and materi- —
als. The advent of nanofabrication—building objects
from the molecular level up—transformed economies,
allowing people to simply manufacture whatever they
needed from raw materials. Nanotechnology is still a
growing field, however, and has its limitations. While
the TITANs unleashed self-replicating nanoswarms
with the ability to transform or destroy anything
through the power of geometric growth, such technol-
ogy remains far beyond transhumanity’s grasp.


BASIC MANOTECH NOLOGY


Basic nanotechnology is exceedingly widespread
and used throughout the solar system, serving as the
primary method of manufacturing for decades. The
nanobots of basic nanotech are confined to delicate
and specially maintained environments like the insides
of cornucopia machines or healing vats and cannot
operate elsewhere.


HEALING VATS


Healing vats were the first type of nanotech medicine
developed and remain the most powerful medical
devices in common use. With the exception of a few
exceptionally deadly nanoplagues, a healing vat can
cure any disease and heal any injury. As long as the
patient is alive when they are place in the healing
vat, they will not only survive, but emerge without a
scratch. A healing vat can even take a severed head
(as long as it has been stabilized by medichines or
nanotech first aid) and regrow an entire body based


HEALING VAT


INJURY


Healing normal damage to a character who has taken 3 or fewer wounds.


Restoring major lost body parts like arms or legs, or healing dying or nearly dead character


eto) Gib ELS OUTICES


Restoring recently dead character who was placed in medical stasis to avoid death, but


who is mostly intact.


Restoring recently dead character who is placed in medical stasis to avoid death,


| Minor implants and bioware, minor cosmetic changes like alterations in skin color, eye


HEALING TIME


2 hours per wound


12 hours per wound
1 day per wound


3 days per wound


color or shape, or hair color, texture or distribution, minor alterations to face shape or 1 hour


Body fat dismibution:


Major brain and neural implants, nanoware or bioware, sex changes, changing height by


moore Ha 2 oe wy eae


Major physical modifications like adding limbs or radical changes to height and weight. = ss days


on the head’s genetics. If the patient’s body or medical
records contain information about their implants,
bioware, or advanced nanotechnology, all of these
modifications are also fully restored.

Few people suffer injuries serious enough to require
a healing vat. Most are used as a safe and easy way to
perform bodysculpting or to install implants or bioware.
Healing vats use specialized nanomachines to either
alter the patient’s body or integrate implants or bioware.
One advantage of using a healing vat is that no addi-
tional healing time is needed, the patient leaves the vat
fully recovered from the augmentation and ready to
go. Every hospital, clinic, bodyshop, and augmentation
parlor has several healing vats. The time required by a
healing vat varies with the severity of the damage it is
healing or the extent of the modification being made, as
noted on the Healing Vat table, (above). [High]


NANODETECTORS


Nanodetectors are small devices that suck in air and
micro debris in order to scan for and detect nano-
bots. Given that nanobots are so small, the density of
nanobots in the area has a large impact on its success.
The nanodetector has a base skill of 30 for detecting
nanobots, modified by +30 if an active nanoswarm or
hive is present, +0 if a nanoswarm or hive was active
recently, and —-10 for the presence of nanobots outside
of a swarm or hive. Once a nanobot is detected it


may be analyzed either by the user or the nanodetec- __


tor’s AI, using Academics: Nanotechnology 30 skill.
Nanodetectors are often worn and left on, set to alert
the user if a hostile nanoswarm is detected. [Low]


NANOFABRICKTORS


Nanofabrication machines are universal assemblers
that perform almost all of the manufacturing in the
solar system. The user loads in raw materials and
electronic plans and it can produce literally any


12 hours


manufactured good, from a weapon to an ultralight
plane to a hot and delicious dinner. Many nanofabri-
cators come equipped with a library of common-use
blueprints (basic foods, standard clothing, common
tools, etc.). Other blueprints must either be purchased
online, self-programmed, or acquired through some
other method (see Nanofabrication, p. 284). The
largest nanofabrication units are more than 10 meters
on a side and are used to produce small consumer
goods in bulk as well as building large devices like
orbital transfer vehicles.

The availability and legality of nanofabricators
varies widely throughout the system. In the inner
system and Jovian Republic, cornucopia machines
are commonly restricted and sometimes illegal, with
licenses only available to hypercorps, military units,
and other officials and elites. In these habitats, only
more limited fabbers are available to the general
populace. Additionally, blueprints are licensed and
protected by copyright laws, and many nanofabrica-
tors feature pre-programmed restrictions that prevent
them from using unlicensed blueprints as well as
from manufacturing weapons, explosives, or other
restricted items. Among the autonomists of the outer
system, however, nanofabricators are commonly
accessible, shared by everyone, and unrestricted.

For rules on creating goods in a nanofabricator, see
Nanofabrication, p. 284.

Desktop Cornucopia Machine: Cornucopia
machines (CMs) are general-purpose nanofabricators.
The smallest CMs are desk-sized cubes approximately
half a meter on a side with a volume of at least 40
liters. They can produce any small object, from tools
to well-folded suits of clothing to handguns or a bowl
of cereal. It is sometimes possible to assemble larger
items, but they must be manufactured in smaller
pieces and then assembled (likely requiring an appro-
priate Hardware Test).




















SYNOPSIS


=


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


While users can purchase bulk raw materials, CMs
also come equipped with a disassembler. The user
loads garbage and other objects into the disassembler
so that they can be turned into raw materials for the
CM. All legally available disassemblers only decon-
struct non-living material. [Expensive]

Fabber: Fabbers are specialized nanofabricators,
portable and considerably smaller than CMs. There
are a wide variety of portable fabbers, including
ones that can make any hand tool or small piece of
personal electronics, ones that can turn any organic
material into food and drink, and ones that can create
any drug or medicine as well as bandages and spe-
cialized dressings. The most common fabbers have a
volume of 4 liters. Larger hand tools and devices are
produced as 2 or 3 separate parts that must be fitted
together. Like CMs, fabbers also contain miniature
disposal units. [Moderate]

Maker: Makers are specially designed to produce
food and drink for the user. Raw materials can be pro-
vided by the addition of any water-containing liquid
and collected biomass like leftover food, grass, dirt,
dead animals, or transhuman waste. Some models are
built into standard vacsuits. Makers can produce water
and various flavored beverages, as well as ration bars
or thick pudding-like edible gels. With adequate raw
material, a maker can indefinitely provide food and
drink for up to three transhumans. Most units, however,
have a very limited range of flavors and textures that
are widely considered to be fairly bad. Models with
a wider and better range of flavors and textures are
more expensive, but produce food that is considered
adequate or occasionally good. [Low to Moderate]

Blueprints: If you want a nanofabricator to make
something, you need to instruct the device how to
create it from the molecular level up. Such blueprints
are available for almost every conceivable item out
there. The cost of such blueprints typically exceeds
the cost of purchasing the item, though factors like
legality and quality may affect the cost as usual (see
Acquiring Gear, p. 296). [One Cost Category Higher
Than Item Cost]


ADVANCED NANOTECHNOLOGY


Advanced nanotechnology includes more recent
developments. Like basic nanotech, advanced nano-
technology cannot self-replicate but the nanobots
can function normally in most environments and are
highly resistant to bacterial attacks and other environ-
mental problems. Typical advanced nanotech consists
of a generator—known as a “hive”—that produces
nanobots as long as it is supplied with raw materials.
Every such hive also includes a miniature disassembly
unit and/or specialized nanomachines that collect
raw materials for the generator. These hives produce
nanobot swarms that are set loose to perform some
function in the world.

Examples of advanced nanotech include COTs
(p. 316), medichines (p. 308), smart dust (p. 316), and
repair spray (p. 333), among others.


General Hive: General hives are capable of produc-
ing any conceivable type of nanobot with the right
blueprints and/or programming. Even at their smallest
size they are not really portable, with a minimum size
being cubes 30 centimeters on a side and a volume of
25 liters. [Expensive]

Specialized Hive: Specialized hives are far more
common than general hives, though they can produce
only one type of nanomachines (i.e., choose one
type of nanoswarm per hive). The smallest special-
ized hives are approximately the size of a 12-gauge
shotgun shell or a large cherry tomato. [Moderate,
plus Cost of Programmed Nanoswarm]


ECO BRIDGES


Ego bridges are vat devices used for uploading and
downloading minds. see Backups and Uploading, p. 268,
and Resleeving, p. 270. [Expensive]


AANOSWARMS AND MICROSWARMS


Swarms are colonies of nanobots or larger microbots
created in a hive, programmed with specific instruc-
tions, and then set free to perform a set task. Each
swarm is composed of hundreds or thousands of
nanobots or microbots, ranging in size from a microbe
to a small insect. Nanobots are typically invisible to
the naked eye, though they can be detected with a
nanodetector (p. 327) or nanoscopic vision (p. 311).
Microbots are more noticeable but still quite small,
usually the size of a grain of sand or a dust mote,
or occasionally as big as a flea. Individual bots in a
swarm are directed by nanocomputers, with behav-
ioral routines modeled on biological insect and animal
swarms. These swarms stick together and work as a
whole, communicating with nanoradios, nanolasers,
or chemical cues, and sharing information between
each bot in the swarm. Note that nanoswarms don’t
invade inside living bodies (though they may attack
externally)—internal nano is handled by nanoware
(p. 308), nanodrugs (p. 321), and nanotoxins (p. 324).

Nanobots and microbots may be designed with
all manner of miniaturized propulsion systems (see
Mobility Systems, p. 310), with the exception of ionic
drives. They are powered by tiny batteries or solar
cells. Their tiny sensors are very effective at allow-
ing them to identify materials and objects, and so to
target discriminatingly. Nanobots or microbots could,
for example, be programmed to ignore metal objects,
certain types of plants, specific morphs, females, or
specific individuals. Swarms may either be released
directly from a hive or from pre-packaged program-
mable canisters.

Swarms must be programmed before they are
released. The programming first determines how long
the swarm is active. This timeframe is open-ended,
though most swarms deteriorate into ineffectiveness
after 2 weeks unless they are replenished by a hive.
The programming then sets what area the swarm is
to occupy. This is also open to interpretation and
can vary from “coat this person” to “spread out to a





— —— a








diameter of 20 meters” to “find the nearest chemical
traces and track them to their source.” Finally, pro-
gramming sets any other parameters for the swarm’s
mission—for example, if it should ignore certain
materials, if it should send a report at a predeter-
mined time, or if it should self-destruct into harmless
dust when it has completed a certain task.

Programming is generally handled as a Simple
Success Test using Programming (Nanoswarm) skill.
Failure simply infers that the programming is imper-
fect, and so the swarm may not operate completely
as planned. An actual Programming (Nanoswarm)
Success Test is only called for if the swarm’s pro-
gramming is substantially complex or if the charac-
ter seeks to have the swarm act outside of its usual
set functions. The bots in each swarm are specially
equipped for the task they are designed for, however,
so attempting to drastically repurpose a swarm may
be difficult or pointless at the gamemaster’s discretion.

Swarms may also be teleoperated, controlled, and/
or (re)programmed once they are released, via radio
or laser link.

Swarms are treated as a whole. The standard
swarm size is enough to cover a 10 x 10 x 10 meter
cube, and this is the standard “unit” of swarm
released by a canister or hive. Swarms may be larger,
but they are treated as individual swarm units. Each
swarm has a Durability of 50 and is immune to
wounds. Most attacks against a swarm simply inflict
1 point of damage. Area-effect weapons, plasma rifles,
and fire inflict 1d10 damage, plasma grenades do full
damage. EMP weapons (p. 341) are very effective
against swarms, inflicting 2d10 + 5 damage and a -10
modifier to all tests due to their damaging effects on
the swarm’s communication abilities until repaired.
Swarms are not affected by vacuum.

Cleaners: This nanoswarm cleans, polishes, and
removes dirt and stains. It may be used on an area,
specific objects, or people. Some facilities employ
permanent cleaner swarms to keep their area spotless.
Cleaners may also be programmed to remove specific
toxins, chemicals, or other hazardous substances in
order to decontaminate an area. Covert operatives
and criminals sometimes use cleaners to eliminate
any evidence they may have left at a scene usable for
forensics purposes, such as blood, hair, or anything
that could be DNA-typed. [Low]

Disassemblers: Also known as smart corrosives,
these nanobots break down any matter. Their advan-
tage over common acids is that not only are they able
to break down any material by using energy to disrupt
chemical bonds, but that they can be programmed to
take apart certain components while ignoring others,
leaving them intact. Disassemblers are a common
weapon used against synthmorphs, eating away their
components without having to worry about acciden-
tally splashing biomorphs. Upon contact, these nano-
bots inflict 1d10 + 2 damage (round up) per Action
Turn. Accumulated damage counts as a wound when
the Wound Threshold is reached. Both Energy and


Kinetic armor protect against this damage, but these
armors are eaten away as well, so the Armor Value is
reduced by the soaked DV. [High]

Engineers: Engineer microswarms are used for
various construction purposes: erecting walls, digging
tunnels, sealing holes, reinforcing foundations, and so
on. [Moderate]

Fixers: This is the nanoswarm version of repair
spray (p. 333) . [Moderate]

Injectors: Injector microswarms are equipped with
tiny needles and a drug payload. A biological target
affected by an injector swarm suffers 1 point of
damage and the effects of the carried drug, chemical,
or toxin. [Moderate]

Gardeners: This microswarm is useful for a number
of agricultural purposes: killing weeds, planting seeds,
trimming plants, pollinating, and even harvesting
small items. It may also be programmed to simply
defoliate an area. [Moderate]

Guardians: Guardians watch for and attack other
unauthorized swarms. Guardians inflict 1d10 + 2
damage (round up) on other swarms they come into
contact with per Action Turn. [Moderate]

Proteans: This nanoswarm is designed to disassem-
ble other materials and objects and to create a single
specific, pre-programmed device from the components
(much like a specialized nanofabricator). The proteans
must be able to scavenge appropriate raw materials
(for example, to create a metallic device the nanobots
must transform something else made of metal). The
construction time takes 1 hour per cost category of
the item (1 hour for a Trivial cost item, 2 hours for
Low, etc.). [High]

Saboteurs: Sab nanobots are designed to infiltrate
electronics or machinery and sabotage them in small
but difficult to discern ways: severing connections,
disabling components, gumming up moving parts,
etc. Saboteurs inflict damage on devices similar to
disassemblers, but the target is not destroyed and
such damage is not immediately obvious. They inflict
1d10 + 2 points of damage to synthmorphs, bots, and
other devices every Action Turn. Armor has no effect,
but accumulated damage counts as a wound when the
Wound Threshold is reached. [High]

Scouts: A scout nanoswarm will systematically
map and explore an area, collecting samples of all
materials and substances it encounters. The samples
are carried back to the hive or canister and chemi-
cally analyzed. Scouts can also be used for forensic
purposes, collecting DNA samples, analyzing chem-
ical residues, and examining other evidence. [High]

Taggants: Taggants seek to lodge themselves onto
everything in their area of dispersal. Each carries
a unique identifier, so that if it is found later, the
tagged person or object can be linked back to
the point they were tagged. Taggants can be pro-
grammed to remain silent, only responding to query
broadcasts made with the proper crypto codes, or
they can be programmed to broadcast their location
back to the deployer via the mesh. [Low]








CREATURE COG COO INT


‘| Smart Dog


CHARACTER CREATION





SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS
ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE














Smart Monkey


Smart Rat


Space Roach





PETS


These partially uplifted and bioengineered animals
have rudimentary intelligence and limited communica-
tion skills. They make for fine companions and helpers.

Fur Coat: A so-called “fur coat” is outerwear made
from a living primitive organism. The creature’s skin,
fur, or scales are real. The organism is cultivated from
transgenic stocks and grown around molds into cloth-
ing shapes, often with actual usefulness: polar bear
parkas, seal diving suits, porcupine coats, etc. Fur
coats are modified with wireless controls and haptic
systems, so they can be made to move, shiver, massage,
or prickle up on command. [Low]

Smart Dogs: Commonly used as discriminatory
guardians, smart dogs are sometimes enhanced with
combative bioware or cybernetics. [Moderate]

Smart Monkey: Commonly used by criminal
groups for minor larceny such as pickpocketing, smart
monkeys can be useful and intelligent aides. [Moderate]

Smart Rats: These upgrades of the common
Norwegian rat are clever and dexterous, and they
easily fit into a pocket or hood. [Low]

Space Roach: Grown to the size of a small dog,
these insects are often biosculpted for bright colors
and patterns. They are useful for minor janitorial
duties. [Low]


SCAVENGER TECH


This technology is often employed by gatecrashers,
space scavengers, and Firewall teams during missions.

Disassembly Tools: These tools are useful for
salvage ops, breaking down wrecks, or dissembling
anything from a habitat room to a vehicle or syn-
thmorph. They include plasma torches, laser cutters,
pneumatic jaws, and smart tools like spanners and
wrenches that can be adapted to a wide array of con-
nections and fittings. [High]

Mobile Lab: The mobile lab is a handheld device
that contains all different types of sensors to investi-
gate organic and inorganic liquid, gaseous, and solid


SKILLS


Fray 30, Freerunning 30, Intimidation 30, Percep-
__ vel a selioitelits) eM Canela Caneel
Climbing 50, Fray 30, Freerunning 30, Infiltra-

tion 30, Perception 30, Scrounging 30, Unarmed


Climbing 40, Fray 40, Freerunning 30, Infiltration —
2 Aegan AY, SOU Ing


Fray 30, Free Fall 30, Infiltration 50, Perception 20,
Scrounging 50


components (from soil to tissue samples) and compo-
sitions. It performs material analysis using different
methods of spectrometry and biochemical testing,
comparing results to a built-in database of element
and compound spectra. Its built in AI comes equipped
with Academic: Chemistry 30. [Moderate]

Specimen Container: This capsule container is
designed to hold samples of any sort (chemical, bio-
logical, etc.) in near stasis. It can be programmed to
reproduce whatever conditions the user specifies, from
cryogenic freezing to extreme heat, or even vacuum or
high-pressure atmosphere. [Low]

Superthermite Charges: These powerful and highly
stable demolition charges are made from a combina-
tion of nanometals and metal oxides. A single charge
can be used to create an explosive blast inflicting
2d10+5 damage. This charge can be shaped with a
successful Demolitions Test, focusing the blast in a
particular 90-degree direction (for example, to blow
through a door). This triples the damage of the blast
in the focused direction; in all other directions, the
damage is reduced to 1/3™ (round down). Multiple
charges apply a cumulative effect. [Moderate]


SERVICES


Anonymous Accounts: These accounts are crucial for
anyone who wants to be discreet with their online
transactions. See Anonymous Account Services,
p. 253. [Moderate]

Backup: A single, one-time backup without insur-
ance is sometimes all the poor can afford, hoping
that they can buy backup insurance later or that
someone that cared about them will see to a resleev-
ing. [Moderate]

Backup Insurance: In the event of verifiable
death, or after a set period of being missing, backup
insurance will arrange for your cortical stack to be
retrieved and your ego downloaded into another
morph. If the cortical stack cannot be retrieved, your
most recent backup is used. Most policies require
that the holder provide a backup to be uploaded








into secure storage at least twice a year. This industry
works in a manner similar to insurance underwrit-
ing in terms of cost and individuals engaged in high
risk professions can expect to pay a premium for
the service. Additionally, attempts to retrieve a cor-
tical stack are minimal unless one wants to pay for
some extra effort (a thriving industry of paramilitary
ego-repo operatives exists for this purpose). [Low to
Moderate per month]

Body Bank: People who are egocasting to another
station but whom hope to download back into the
same body they have before when they return may
put the morph on ice for the duration of their absence.
[Moderate per month]

Bot/Pod Rental: When you need a helping hand or
a personal companion for a day or two, renting a bot
or pod is often the way to go. [Moderate per day]

Egocasting: This is the use of a farcaster to trans-
mit an ego/infomorph. Farcasting is not cheap, and
the cost is impacted by factors such as distance to
receiver station and priority service (paying extra to
get bumped ahead in line). [Expensive]

Fake Ego ID: This forged ID will pass in most inner
system and Jovian Republic habitats, and sometimes
others. [High]

Morph Brokerage: Acquiring a new morph is not
always easy and is affected by factors such as the type
of morph, sought-after enhancements/customizations,
and local availability. Numerous brokerage services
exist to find you what you need, or close to it. With
enough lead-time, it may be possible to grow a pod
that closely imitates your morph of choice. A willing-
ness to accept used/traded-in morphs helps to reduce
costs. For more details, see Morph Brokerage, p. 276.

Psychosurgery: A character can purchase time in an
immersive high-fidelity simulspace with expert care
from psychosurgeons and Als in order to cope with
derangements and disorders that build up as a result
of existing in a transhuman universe. For an addi-
tional price the procedure can be time shifted to speed
up the relative time within the simulspace. For more
details, see Mental Healing and Psychotherapy, p. 215,
and Psychosurgery, p. 229. [Moderate per month]

Simulspace Subscription: This will buy you access
to the simulspace of your choice, whether you want
it for a private meeting/vacation or to play the latest
and hottest VR game. [Low (single use/1 day) to
Moderate (monthly subscription)|

Space Travel: Space transport cost depends on
a number of factors like distance, quality of lodg-
ings, and how much cargo you’re bringing with. At
the low end, an intra-habitat shuttle trip within the
same cluster, or a trip to or from a planetary body’s
surface and orbit, is not cheap but affordable [High].
Just about anything else is progressively more costly.
[Expensive]


ro rg oe












SUF TWARE


For information on using software, see The Mesh
chapter, p. 234


PROGRAMS


These programs can be run on any computerized device.
AR Illusions: These databases of AR clips can be used

to create realistic illusions in someone’s entoptic display.

see Augmented Reality Illusions, p. 259. [Moderate]

Encryption: Crypto software generates key pairs,
encrypts messages using public keys, and decrypts
with secret keys. See Encryption, p. 253 [Low]

Exploit: Exploits are hacker tools that take advan-
tage of known vulnerabilities in other software. They
are required for intrusion attempts (p. 254). [High]

Facial/Image Recognition: This program can be
used to take an image and run a pattern-matching
search among public archives. Similar version of this
program exist for other biometrics: gait recognition, —
vocal recognition, etc. [Low]

Firewall: This program protects a device from
hostile intrusion. Every system comes with a standard
version of this software by default. [Low]

Sniffer: Sniffer programs collect all of the transmis-
sion that pass to, from, or through the device they are
running on. See Siffing, p. 252. [Moderate]

Spoof: Spoof is a hacker tool used to fake com-
mands and transmissions, making them seem as
if they came from another source. See Spoofing
Authentication, p. 255. [Moderate]

Tactical Networks: These programs allow people in
the same squad to share tactical data in real-time. See
Tactical Networks, p. 205. [Moderate]

Tracking: This software is used to track people by
their presence online. See Scanning, Tracking, and
Monitoring, p. 251. [Moderate]

XP: Experience playback recordings are clips of
someone else’s experiences. Depending on the content,
some XP (porn, snuff, crime, etc.) may be restricted in
certain jurisdictions. Some XP clips are intentionally
modified so that their emotive tracks are more intense,
giving the viewer a greater thrill. [Low to High]


ls AND MUSES


Every character starts with a personal muse for
free. Many devices also come with pre-installed Als,
capable of helping the user, responding to commands,
or even operating the device on their own. Rules for
Als can be found on p. 264.

Below are some commonly available AI programs.
Unless otherwise noted, these Als have aptitudes of 10
and one Language skill at 80. These Als may also be
equipped with skillsofts (p. 332).

Bot/Vehicle AI: These Als are designed to be
capable of piloting the robot/vehicle without
transhuman assistance. REF 20. Skills: Hardware:
Electronics 20, Infosec 20, Interests: [Bot/Vehicle]
Specs 80, Interface 40, Research 20, Perception 40,
Pilot: [appropriate field] 40. [High]





PS
—— = =i a
eee —=- a 8 = —




















SYNOPSIS


'
‘
|
i
' J


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


[-P)
Pri
I
i =]


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE








Device AI: These Als are designed to operate a par-
ticular device without transhuman assistance. Skills:
Infosec 20, Interests: [Device] Specs 80, Interface 30
(Device Specialization), Programming 20, Research 20,
Perception 20. [Moderate]

Kaos AI: Kaos Als are used by hackers and covert


ops teams to create distractions and sabotage systems. _


REF 20. Skills: Hardware: Electronics 40, Infosec 40,
Interface 40, Professional: Security Systems 80,
Programming 40, Research 20, Perception 30, plus
one weapon skill at 40. [Expensive]

Security AI: Security Als provide overwatch for
electronic systems. Skills: Hardware: Electronics 30,
Infosec 40, Interface 40, Professional: Security Systems 80,
Programming 40, Research 20, Perception 30, plus
one weapon skill at 40. [High]

Standard Muse: Muses are digital entities that have
been designed as personal assistants and lifelong com-
panions for transhumans (see Als and Muses, p. 264).
INT 20. Skills: Academics: Psychology 60, Hardware:
Electronics 30, Infosec 30, Interfacing 40, Professional:
Accounting 60, Programming 20, Research 30,
Perception 30, plus three other Knowledge skills
at 40. [High]


SCORCHERS


Scorchers are damaging neurofeedback programs used
to torment hacked cyberbrains (p. 261).

Bedlam: Bedlam programs assault the ego with
traumatic mental input, inflicting mental stress.
Victims are overwhelmed with horrific, monstrous,
sanity-ripping sensory and emotional input. Each
attack inflicts 1d10 SV. [High]

Cauterizer: This scorch program rips into the ego
with destructive neurofeedback routines. Each attack
with a cauterizer inflicts 1d10 + 5 DV on the target
ego. This damage is reflected as digitized neurological
damage. [High]

Nightmare: Nightmare programs trigger anxiety
and panic attacks within the victim by stimulating the
neural circuitry representing the amygdala and hip-
pocampus. The target ego must make a WIL x 2 Test.
If they succeed, they are shaken but otherwise unaf-
fected, suffering a -10 modifier to all actions until the
end of the next Action Turn. If they fail, they suffers
1d10 + 2 stress damage and are overcome with panic.
This causes them either to blindly flee, have a nervous
breakdown, or cower in frozen shock (gamemaster’s
discretion). This panic episode lasts for 1 Action Turn
per 10 points of MoF. [High]

Shutter: Shutters target the victim’s sensory cor-
tices, inflicting a -30 modifier to one chosen sense.
Double this modifier if the attacking hacker scored an
Excellent Success. This modifier reduces at the rate of
10 points per Action Turn. [High]

Spasm: Spasm programs are design to incapacitate
the ego with excruciating pain. Affected targets must
immediately make a WIL x 2 Test. If they fail, they
immediately convulse, are disabled, and writhe in
agony for 1 Action Turns per 10 full points of MoF.


If they succeed, they still suffer a -30 modifier to all
actions, which reduces at the rate of 10 points per
Action Turn. Due to the nature of the delivery, pain
tolerance of any sort has no effect. [High]


SHILLSOFTS


Skillsofts are used with skillware implants (p. 309).
Standard Skillsoft: These programs provide the
character with a rating of up to 40 in a single Active


skill. [High]


SURVIVAL GEAR


The following gear is often critical to the survival
of soldiers, spies, criminals, gatecrashers, emergency
service personnel, and others who regularly venture
into unsafe or unfamiliar regions.

Breadcrumb Positioning System: This worn device
leaves micro “breadcrumbs” behind as the character
moves. These devices interact with mesh inserts (or
ectos) as long as they are within range (50 meters),
allowing the user to map their position in relation to
the breadcrumb trail. This is useful in derelict habitats,
wilderness, and other areas where there is no local
functioning mesh, and is helpful both for mapping
and for finding one’s way back. [Low]

Electrogravitics Net: Also called a safety net, this
failsafe system uses electric fields to counter gravity
when falling. While the system is not able to actually
levitate heavy objects, it will slow down a fall enough
that the user can land safely if the gravitational force
is not too high (the fall height is not greater than 50
meters in 1G). Generating these electric fields consumes
a lot of energy, so the net is only charged for one use
only and needs to be recharged afterwards. [Moderate]

Electronic Rope: The
fibers in this rope can be
controlled electronically,
making it move in a snake-
like fashion, stiffen up, and
even wrap around objects.
Typically comes in a
50-meter length capable of
supporting 250 kg. [Low]

Emergency Bubble:
Commonly used as a last
resort “life raft” on space-
ships, an emergency bubble
is made of advanced smart
materials and comes in
a portable package that





can be quickly inflated
(1 Action Turn) around
the user, usually inside an airlock. The bubble has a
5-meter diameter and can comfortably accommodate
4 people. It maintains 1 atmosphere of pressure in a
vacuum, protects the inhabitants from temperatures
ranging from -175 to 140 C, and provides light,
breathable air and water and food recycling for up
to four human-sized inhabitants, using its built in





maker (p. 328). It features a simple airlock, carries
an emergency distress beacon (below), and can be
transparent, opaque, or polarized. It is powered by a
small nuclear battery and also includes comfortable
inflatable furniture. [Moderate]

Emergency Distress Beacon: This small but power-
ful transmitter is powered by a nuclear battery and
will broadcast any programmed distress call for years.
Though portable and medium-sized, this beacon has
a range of 500 km in urban areas and 5,000 km else-
where. [Moderate]

Flashlight: These handheld, wearable, or portable
lights can display light in the normal visual spectrum,
infrared, or ultraviolet, as desired. [Trivial]

Nanobandage: Characters without medichines must
rely on external sources of healing. The most common
option is the nanobandage—a plum-sized advanced
nanotechnology generator built into a reusable, self-
sterilizing bandage. It can treat all forms of injury and
illness, from poisoning to burns to trauma. Characters
simply apply the bandage to the wound and let the
nanobots do the work. It removes pain and dis-
comfort and speeds healing (see Biomorph Healing,
p. 208). For especially severe injuries, physical first aid
such as setting bones and removing projectiles may
be necessary (gamemaster’s choice). If the wounds are
too severe (the patient has suffered more than five
wounds), the unit places the patient in medical stasis
and radios for emergency services. [Trivial]

Repair Spray: This nanobot generator creates
nanobots designed to repair synthmorphs, vehicles,
and other common objects. Repair spray contains the
specifications and plans for almost all commonly used
synthmorphs and devices and is a ubiquitous house-
hold item. If it does not contain the specifications for
something it is being used to repair, it must query the
object’s voice for these details, otherwise it cannot
repair it. Simply touch it to the damaged area, push
the button on top, and it sprays out a number of nano-
bots sufficient to make repairs. These nanobots repair
1d10 points of damage per 2 hours. Once all damage
is restored, the nanobots repair wounds at the rate of
1 per day. Repair spray also cleans and polishes items
and returns them to a pristine and new state. Repair
spray is not effective on any object with more than
3 wounds, but it provides a +30 to all repair rolls on
anything too badly damaged for it to fully repair (see
Synthmorph and Object Repair, p. 208). [Low]

Shelter Dome: A variant of the emergency bubble,
this package unfolds into a dome with a 2.5-meter
ceiling and a floor 4 meters across. To safely use this
shelter, it must be staked down to the surface it is
placed on. [Moderate]

Spindle: A spindle is an advanced nanotechnology
generator that produces a super-strong cable. It can
produce up to 2 kilometers of 0.2 millimeter diameter
line than can support up to 250 kilograms before it
needs more raw materials. The spindle can produce
up to 20 meters of cable every second. It can produce
line in a continuous length or cut the cable it produces








to any length. Spindles can also reabsorb their cable,
retracting it at a rate of 5 m per second. As long as it is
recharged and has small amounts of additional material
added every 1,000 hours of use, a spindle can keep pro-
ducing and retracting cable indefinitely. By setting the
maximum production speed at 10 m/second a character
with a spindle can safely jump off a building and land
safely, using the cable to slow their descent. [Moderate]

Spindle Climber: This device attaches to a spindle
and transforms it into a highly effective climbing
device. The spindle climber has two functions. First, it
attaches hardened tips to the spindle’s cable and fires
it at high speed, up to 50 meters, with sufficient force
to imbed the tip into almost any sufficiently durable
surface. Second, the spindle climber can pull itself and
up to 250 kg up the cable at a speed of up to 2 m/sec.
A spindle climber has enough power to shoot and pull
up the cable 50 times before it must be recharged. A
spindle fits inside a spindle climber. [Low]


VACUUM SUITS


Most vacuum suits are skin-tight garments that use
the pressure of their advanced smartfabrics on the
wearer’s body to resist vacuum. When the wearer is in
a breathable atmosphere, the smartfabric also loosens
the suits to serve as ordinary clothing or be easily
put on or taken off. In all cases, the suits can become
skin-tight within 3 Action Turns. All vacsuits contain
advanced rebreather units capable of maintaining a
breathable atmosphere for several hours or days.

Light Vacsuit: Everyone living in a sealed habitat
owns at least one of these suits. They come in a
variety of forms. Inexpensive versions are typically
lightweight jumpsuits made of simple smart fabric
that adjusts to fit and folds up small enough to fit
into a coat pocket. The best models include suits of
high-end smart clothing that can transform into a
vacsuit and an advanced nanotech generator the size
of a large orange that deploy nanobots that cover the
user and fit together into a vacuum suit. Both can
transform into a vacsuit in 2 full Action Turns and do
so either on command or if their sensors reveal that
life support is needed.

All models include a lightweight belt or torc
containing a miniature oxygen tank and advanced
rebreather unit that provides 3 hours of air. However,
the suits contain no food or water recycling. All
models include an ecto (p. 325) and a headlight, but
typically little else beyond atmosphere sensors to let
the wearer know when it is safe to take off the suit.
They protect the wearer from temperatures from —75
to 100 C. These vacuum suits also provide an Armor
rating of 5/5 and instantly self-seal breaches unless
more than 20 points of damage are inflicted at once.
[Low, Moderate for smartfabric suits]

Standard Vacsuit: These suits resemble light vac-
suits made from thicker and more durable materials
that resist tearing and provides the wearer with light
armor. They are fitted with more substantial life
support belts that includes a maker (p. 328) capable


a a aaa ~ :


TT — Ee























SYNOPSIS


=


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


of recycling all wastes and producing air for up to 48
hours and food and water indefinitely. The best suits
are made of smart materials that can transform from
standard clothing to vacuum suits in a single Action
Turn, and will do so automatically if life support is
needed. Each suit also contains an ecto (p. 325), a
radio booster (p. 314), and sensors equal to specs
(p. 326). These suits have an Armor rating of 7/7 and
protect the wearer from temperatures from —-175 to
140 C. They can almost instantly seal any hole unless
more than 30 points of damage are inflicted at once.
[Moderate, High for smartfabric suits]

Hardsuit: This heavy-duty suit can almost be
considered a miniature spaceship. Hardsuits look
like large metallic ovals with jointed arms and legs.
They are quite heavy, but the user can move relatively
easily due to servo-assist motors in the major arm
and leg joints. Unlike other vacsuits, they are solid
and can resist both vacuum and up to 100 atmo-
spheres of external pressure. Characters wearing
hardsuits can safely explore the upper atmosphere of
a gas giant. They are well armored against punctures
and radiation and possess miniature plasma thrusters
capable of delivering 0.01 g for 10 hours. A built-in
high-quality maker produces sufficient food, air, and
water for a user to remain in a hardsuit indefinitely.
Explorers have used them continuously for up to 2
months. Their gloves incorporate smart materials that
allow each hand to use the equivalent of a utilitool
(p. 326). Hardsuits also contain radios and sensors
equivalent to those on standard vacsuits. These suits
are maintained by a fixer nanoswarm (p. 329), are
instantly self-sealing of any breach unless more than
30 points of damage are inflicted at once, and protect
the wearer from temperatures of —200 to 180 C.
Hardsuits have an Armor rating of 15/15. Occupants
may only wear armor with an Armor rating (Energy
or Kinetic) of 4 or less; this worn armor is cumulative
without layering penalties. [High]


WEAPONS


A wide range of weapons are available in Eclipse
Phase, from the primitive to the technologically
advanced.


MELEE WEAPONS


Melee weapons are those wielded by hand (or foot) in
melee combat. They are divided by the skill be which
they are used.


BLADES


These weapons are wielded with Blades skill.

Diamond Axe: Commonly found on many habitats
for fire and emergency purposes, axes require two
hands to wield. Their blades are diamond-coated for
superior cutting ability. [Low]

Flex Cutter: The blade of this machete-like weapon
is made of a memory polymer. When deactivated, the
blade is limp and flexible, and may even be rolled


up or otherwise easily concealed. When activated,
however, the blade stiffens and sharpens into a vicious
slashing weapon. [Low]

Knife: A standard cutting implement, still carried
by many. [Trivial]

Monofilament Sword: Though swords are rather
archaic in the time of Eclipse Phase, a few eccentrics
take advantage of modern versions with a self-
sharpening near-monomolecular edge, easily capable
of slicing through metal or limbs. [Low]

Vibroblade: These buzzing electronic blades vibrate
at a high frequency for extra cutting ability. This
has little extra effect when stabbing or slashing, but
provides an extra -—3 AP and +2d10 damage when
carefully sawing through something. [Low]

Wasp Knife: Wasp knives are equipped with a can-
ister in their handle. The common use is to fill these
canisters with pressured air, which inflates inside
the target. This is potentially lethal in vacuum or
pressurized environments (like underwater), as the
gas bursts out of the body cavity to escape (+2d10
damage in such situations). Wasp knives may also
be loaded with chemicals, drugs, or nanobots. The
target must be damaged for the canister’s contents to
affect them. [Low]


CLUBS


Characters use Clubs skill when using these weapons.

Club: Clubs encompasses a wide range of one-
handed blunt objects, from saps to sticks to pipes.
[Trivial]

Extendable Baton: This hardened composite baton
retracts into its handle for easy carrying, storage, or
concealment. Extending it simply requires a flick or
an electronic signal. [Trivial]

Shock Baton: Shock batons are standard clubs
used for policing duties, but when activated they also
deliver an electric shock to struck targets (see Shock
Attacks, p. 204). [Low]


EROTIC MELEE WEAPONS
Unusual weapons requires a specific Exotic Melee
field skill to use.

Monowire Garrote: This assassin’s weapon fea-
tures a dangerous monomolecular wire wrapped
around a contained spool with two handles. One
handle grips the spool, while the other extends the
wire so that it may be used to wrap around targets
(typically necks or limbs) and slice through them
when pulled. Monofilament tensile strength is weak,
however, usually breaking after one use. [Moderate]


UNARMED


These weapons are wielded using Unarmed Combat skill.

Densiplast Gloves: These gloves extra-harden when
activated, for extra punch. [Trivial]

Shock Gloves: When activated, these gloves deliver
an incapacitating shock along with every punch or
grab. Note that the effect is the same whether wearing
one glove or two. [Low]











KINETIC WEAPONS


Kinetic weapons damage the target by firing a hard





impact projectile at high-velocities. Slugthrowers have
evolved from the mechanical firearms of the early 21“
century, however, and now fall into two categories:
chemical firearms and railguns. Though their mecha-
nisms for firing are different, they are roughly similar
in effect. Railguns have a higher penetration and
inflict more damage, which is offset by more limited
ammunition choices. While modern beam weapons
have their uses, they rarely match the punch of kinetic
weapons, therefore slugthrowers are still perceived as
the most versatile and effective weapon system.
Kinetic weapons are constructed from lightweight,
reinforced plastoceramic materials, which are easily





produced even without nanofabrication. By default,
modern kinetic weapons are ambidextrous but more
importantly feature safety and smartlink systems
(p. 343) that automatically connect to the wielder’s
mesh inserts for firing assistance, target recognition,
and tactical networking.

The wielder of a firearm or railgun uses Kinetic
Weapons skill. For information on firing modes, see
p. 198. For different ammunition types, see p. 337.
Ranges are listed on p. 203.


FIREARMS


Modern chemical firearms use caseless ammuni-
tion that is auto-loaded from a magazine. They are
effectively recoilless (thanks to rheological smart


— = Sas So aS es ES ———_—[_ oe









cae: Na ae : : - a














fluid mechanisms) and electronically fired (an electric
charge vaporizes the propellant, using the expanding
steam and plasma to eject and accelerate the projectile).

Note that older, pre-Fall firearms still exist and are
traded by black marketeers, though they use outdated
system such as liquid propellants or cased ammuni-
tion. At the gamemaster’s discretion, these relics may
suffer shorter ranges, less penetration, fewer firing
modes, or reduced damage.

Pistols: Pistols are small-sized (Gear Sizes, p. 297)
and designed for one-hand use. Light pistols sacrifice
penetrating ability for concealability. Heavy pistols
focus on stopping power, with medium pistols
occupying a middle ground. All versions fire in semi-
automatic, burst-fire, and full-auto modes. [Low]

Submachine Guns: SMGs use pistol ammunition,
but are medium-sized (Gear Sizes, p. 297) and may
fire in semi-auto, burst fire, or full auto modes. They
typically are designed in a bullpup configuration for
close quarters operations and are ideal for tactical
and strike teams. [Moderate]

Automatic Rifles: Automatic rifles use rifle ammu-
nition and have greater range and penetration than
SMGs. They fire in semi-auto, burst fire, or full auto
modes. They are two-handed weapons. [Moderate]





Sniper Rifle: Sniper rifles are optimized for range, accu-
racy, penetration, and stopping power. They fire in semi-
auto mode only and are two-handed weapons. [High]

Machine Gun: Machine guns are heavy weapons,
typically mounted, and intended to provide continuous


MELEE WEAPONS—BLADES, CLUBS, EXOTIC, UNARMED


39 WAND) oh)
Diamond A AX


ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)


Flex Cutter


Koife_


Monofilament Sword OH


‘Vibroblade


Wasp Knife,


CLUBS
Club —


ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)





‘Shock B Baton er ee


EXOTIC MELEE WEAPONS ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)


Monowire Garrote —8


UNARMED —
Bioware Claws (p. 304) os













Eelware (p. 304) De ee


Unarmed












Extendable B Baton ee eee
(di 04 cm oes Gs (SOM -











Cyberclaws (307)
Densiptast Groves


Shock Gloves


DAMAGE VALUE (DV)

—2d10+3+(SOM=10)

~1d10 4 3 +(SOM + 10)

“1d10 + 2 + (SOM 10)

“2410 + 2 + (SOM = B———— ee
2d10 + (SOM + 10) T+ (SOM = 10)

1d10 # 2 + (SOM - 2 ait 7 a (SOM = = - 10) oe


AVERAGE DV
144 Ue + ae


YAN PANG] Sia t/AN LU) ca (DA)
—1d10+24+ (SOM = 10)
- 10) 4 = - shock (p.204)


AVERAGE DV

7 + (SOM = 10)
‘7+(SOM=10)
7+ (SOM+10)






















DAMAGE VALUE (DV) AVERAGE DV


DAMAGE VALUE (DV) AVERAGE DV
1d10+1+(SOM=10) 6 + (SOM = 10)
—1d10+3+(SOM=10) = = == 8+(SOM+10)
1d10+2+(SOM=10) == 7 +(SOM= 10)
shock (p. 204), —_ ee eee,
1d10 + ( (SOM - + 10) i shock (p. 204) St (SOM + 10) a
1d10 + (SOM = 10) «5 4(SOM=10)








THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


eae
EEE











fire for support or suppressive purposes. They fire


in burst fire or full auto modes, and are two-handed


weapons. [High]


AAILOUNS


Railguns use a pair of electromagnetic rails to slide


and accelerate a non-explosive conductive projectile at


extremely high velocities (Mach 6+) to create an over-


| Light Pistol Z


2d10 +2
2010-4
2d10 +6








upon impact that shatter and incinerate the target, or
portions of it. While railguns are more potent than
firearms, the ammunition choices are limited as the
projectile must be conductive and able to survive
both acceleration and heat created in the process due
to friction. Nanofabrication allows railguns to be
manufactured on the personal weapons scale while
high-energy portable batteries provide the power to
fire them. Railgun operation makes no flash and is
silent except for the supersonic crack of the projectile.

Railguns are available in the same models as fire-
arms (pistols through machine guns), with the follow-
ing modifications:


e Increase AP by -3

e Increase damage by +2

e Increase the maximum for each range category
by x1.5

e Increase Cost category by one

e Railguns may only use regular and armor-pierc-
ing ammunition

e Railguns also require battery power for each shot.
Standard batteries hold enough power for 200
shots. They may be recharged or switched out
just like beam weapon batteries (p. 338).


KINETIC AMMUNITION


Ammunition is defined by its various types (standard,
gel, APDS, etc.) and by the class of gun (light pistol,
heavy pistol, SMG, etc.). For simplicity, each gun
can trade ammunition with another gun of its class,








whelming, penetrating attack. The kinetic energy of though ammunition for firearms and railguns is not
the projectile exceeds that of an explosive-filled shell exchangeable. For example, all railgun SMGs can
,
of greater mass and creates shock and heat waves share ammo.
rr ernrereeeremes '
| Light Pistol = 2d10 1 SA, BE FA 16
| Medium Pistol 2 2d10 + 2 13 SA, BF, FA 12 |
| Heavy Pistol —4 2d10 + 4 15 SA, BF. FA 10 |
| Submachine Gun -2 2d10 +3 4 SA, BF FA |
> cn co | Automatic Rifle 6 2d10 +6 17 SA, BE FA 30 |
ACTIONS AND COMBAT ose
| Sniper Rifle =| 2 2d10 + 10 21 SA 12 |
a. a ea a a ee ee d
>


f
i

GAME INFORMATION Medium Pistol =)
Heavy Pistol =

REFERENCE

| Submachine Gun =
| Automatic Rifle ~9
Sniper Rifle =)
| Machine Gun =o





2d10+5
2d10 + 8
2d10 + 12
2d10 + 8


13 SA, BF, FA 16
ie SA, BF, FA 12
17 SA, BF, FA 10
16 SA, BF, FA 20
ibe, SA, BF, FA 30
Ue: SA 12
19 BF, FA 50


ere eee errant ire a oe ge eee a






ANNAN WM N NT MNT THT N TSEC
SRAe ein sntenaac isi





:


Bsa Ree mE mre


Rison ca Mo a


The ammunition’s Damage Value and Armor
Penetration modifiers are added to the weapon’s
base DV and AP. With the exception of regular and
armor-piercing rounds, none of this ammunition may
be used with railguns. Listed costs are per 100 rounds
of ammunition.

Armor-Piercing: This tungsten-carbide ammunition
penetrates armor effectively. [Low]

Bug: Bug rounds are equipped with a microbug
and medical sensor nanobots. They attempt to gather
information on the target’s location (via standard
mesh tracking), health (querying the target’s medich-
ines), and surroundings (typically hindered by being
inside the target’s body). They will transmit status
reports in a pre-programmed manner via the mesh or
a pre-chosen frequency band either continuously or in
pre-set intervals. [Low]

Capsule: Capsule ammo carries a payload (drug,
toxin, nanobots) that is released inside the target after
the round penetrates. [Trivial plus payload cost]


Flux: Flux ammo is made from rheological materi- -—


als that allow each bullet to be “programmed” so that
they may change from regular rounds to less-lethal soft
plastic-like rounds. This allows the firer to choose the
type of round (regular or plastic) made with each shot
or burst, and then change with the next one. [Low]

Hollow-Point: Hollow-point bullets are designed to
deform and widen once they penetrate a target, thus
inflicting more damage. [Trivial]





“SERRANO NN MS


Uist PUSUOL





Chae


SERRA RRA oan ‘


ER


KINETIC AMMUNITION


AP MODIFIER DV MODIFIER
5 2
a
haf
as. ammo ype
+1d10
-nodamage
Plastic ==————Ss«(AV doubled) «= half


i


AMMO
i) en











eee ae






Copsle






AS Ammo type





Flux





Hollow- Point











Jammer







Reactive





Reactive ‘Armor-Piercing —


Regular





no 10 damage


Splash :
-half + shock (p. 204)







Zap
SMART AMMO
Accushot _ ets Ok 08 omy a eteet
Bites aT
= eae








Homing ;
‘Laser-Guided


Proximity


Zero











SYNOPSIS


m=


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


Jammer: Jammers stick to the target and pulse out
jamming electromagnetic signals, jamming the target’s
wireless communications. If an Opposed Test is called
for, these devices have an Interface of 30. See Radio
Jamming, p. 262. [Low]

Plastic: Plastic ammo is designed to hurt but not
wound targets, and is commonly used for crowd
control purposes. [Trivial]

Reactive: The casing on these projectiles is made
of reactive materials that release a large amount of
energy when subjected to a sudden shock or impact—
such as striking a target. In other words, they explode
or superheat when they hit. [Low]

Reactive Armor-Piercing (RAP): This is a tung-
sten-carbide armor-piercing round with a reactive
casing, allowing the ammunition to penetrate even
further. [Moderate]

Regular Ammo: This standard metal projectile is
designed to put holes into morphs. [Trivial]

Splash: Splash rounds carry a payload like capsule
ammo, but are designed to break upon impact rather
than penetrating, splashing their contents on the
target’s exterior. Splash rounds are typically loaded
with paint, taggant nanobots, tracker dye, and similar
substances. [Trivial plus payload cost]

Zap: Zap rounds are rubber or gel bullets that
create an electric charge upon firing in a piezoelectric
like manner to stun the target effectively with both
the bullet and the electric shock. [Trivial]


SMART AMM


Smart ammunition takes advantage of nanotechnol-
ogy to produce bullets that can alter their flight path,
home in the target, and correct aim. Smart ammo may
not be used with railguns. With the exception of biter,
flayer, and proximity rounds, smart ammo may be
combined with other ammo types (accushot armor-
piercing, for example).

Accushot: Accushot bullets change shape within
flight to keep dead on course, countering the effects of
wind, drag, and gravity over distance. Attacks made
with accushot bullets ignore all range modifiers. [Low]

Biter: Biters are specially designed to fragment in
Opposite proportion to the hardness of the target they
strike. For hard targets (synthmorphs), they frag-
ment very little, blasting a big hole. For soft targets
(biomorphs), they fragment and tumble in multiple
directions within the body. [Low]

Flayer: Flayers have nanosensors to detect an
oncoming impact, shooting out monomolecular barbs
as they are about to strike a target. These monowires
cut through the target along with the bullet, inflicting
additional damage. [Low]

Homing: When fired with a smartlink system, the
bullet identifies the target and uses nanosensors to
lock on, correcting the bullet’s trajectory with surface
alterations and tiny vectored nozzles. Apply a +10
modifier to the Attack Test, cumulative with aiming
and smartlink modifiers. Homing bullets may also be
used for indirect fire (p. 195). [Low]


Laser-Guided: These bullets function like homing
smart rounds (apply the +10 attack modifier), except
rather than requiring a smartlink system, they lock
onto the reflection of the laser sight used to paint
the target. Laser-guided bullets may also be used for
indirect fire (p. 195). [Low]

Proximity: Proximity is an explosive ammunition
that identifies the target when fired via smartlink. If
the round determines that it will miss the target, it will
still explode if it reaches the close proximity of the
target. If the attack misses with an MoF of 10 or less,
the round explodes 1d10 meters away from the target
and inflicts 1d10 area effect damage (see Blast Effect,
p. 193) in the proximity of the target. [Moderate]

Zero: Similar to homing smart rounds, zero bullets
identify the target when fired via smartlink. Whether
the round hits or misses, however, it sends telem-
etry data back to the next zero bullet, allowing it to
course-correct and “zero in” to hit the target (or hit
more accurately). Apply a +10 modifier to each shot
(or burst) fired after the first against the same target in
the same Action Turn. [Low]


BEAM WEAPONS


Beam weapons is a broad category for a number of
electromagnetic weapons with a wide range of effects.
With a few exceptions, energy weapons are primarily
used for less-than-lethal purposes, designed to impair
the target rather than kill it. Their poor performance
against armor, lesser ability to damage targets, and
high power requirements make them less versatile
than kinetic weapons. All beam weapons come with
built-in safety and smartlink systems (p. 342). The
wielders of such weapons use Beam Weapons skill.

Batteries: Beam weapons are equipped with both
a standard and nuclear battery. The standard battery
is good for the listed number of shots before it is
depleted. The nuclear battery will recharge the stan-
dard battery completely in 5 hours. Standard batteries
may be swapped out with a Simple Action. [Trivial
(Standard) or Low (Nuclear) |

Laser Pulsers: Laser weapons use focused beams
of light to inflict damage on the target by burning
into it and causing its outer surface to vaporize
and expand, creating an explosive effect. The laser
beam is pulsed in order to bite into the target before
the beam is diffused. Pulsers are vulnerable to
atmospheric effects like dust, mist, smoke, or rain,
however—the gamemaster should reduce their effec-
tive range categories as appropriate. Note that laser
pulses are invisible in the normal visual spectrum
(but are visible to characters with enhanced vision).
Pulsers are medium-sized (see p. 297) and fire in
semi-auto mode. [Moderate]

One advantage to the pulser is that it can be placed
in less-lethal mode. In this case, it first fires a pulse at
the target to create a ball of plasma, quickly fired by
a second pulse that strikes the plasma and creates a
flash-bang shockwave to stun and disorient the target.
This blast has an area of effect with a 1-meter radius.








Anyone caught in the blast must make a SOM x 2 Test
(SOM x 3 for synthmorphs or biomorphs with any
form of pain tolerance). Failure means the target is
temporarily stunned and disoriented and loses their
next action. A critical failure means the target is
knocked down and paralyzed for 1 Action Turn per
10 points of MoE In this stun setting, the pulser fires
only in single-shot mode.

Microwave Agonizer: The agonizer fires millimeter-
wave beams that create an unpleasant burning sen-
sation in skin (even through armor) and to metals.
Agonizers have two settings. The first is an active
denial setting that causes extreme burning pain in the
target, inflicting —20 to the target’s actions and forcing
them to move away from the beam on their next
action unless they succeed in a WIL Test (targets with
Level 1 Pain Tolerance or the equivalent only suffer
a -10 modifier and roll WIL x 2). Synthetic morphs
and biomorphs with Level 2 Pain Tolerance (or the
equivalent) are immune to this weapon. The second
setting (colloquially known as the “roast” setting) has
the same effect of the first, but also actually burns the
target, inflicting the listed damage. Originally devel-
oped for crowd control, the agonizer is also useful for
repelling animals. The agonizer is small-sized (p. 297)
and fires in single-shot mode. [Moderate]

Particle Beam Bolter: This weapon shoots a bolt of
accelerated particles at near light speed that transfer
massive amounts of kinetic energy to the target, super-
heating and creating an explosion when striking. The
bolter’s beam is not diffused by the cloud that occurs
when it strikes, and so it has greater penetration than the
laser pulser. Likewise, the bolter is not affected by smoke,
fog, or rain. The bolter’s beam is invisible (but visible in
infrared). Bolters must be set for either atmospheric or
exoatmospheric (vacuum) operation and will not func-
tion in the opposite environment, though it only takes
a Complex Action to switch. Bolters fire in semi-auto





continue to take 2d10 damage per Action Turn until
extinguished. Plasma guns suffer from dangerous
overheating in vacuum and require 1 full Action Turn
of cool-down time after every 2 shots. Plasma rifles
fire in semi-auto mode. [Expensive]

Stunner: The stunner is an electrolaser that creates
an electrically conductive plasma channel to the target,
down which it transmits a powerful electric current,
shocking the target. Stunners do not work in vacuum.
Stunners fire in semi-auto mode. [Moderate]


SEEKERS


Seekers are a combination of automatic grenade
launcher, micromissile, coilgun, and smart munitions
technology. Unlike traditional launchers of the past,
miniaturization allows the manufacture of seeker
micromissile launchers in personal weapon sizes.
Seeker rounds are fired at high-velocity via rings of
magnetic coils, after which the micromissile or mini-
missile uses scramjet technology to propel itself and
maintain high velocities over great distances. Seekers
are wielded using Seeker Weapon skill.

Seeker missiles are detailed on p. 340. Like gre-
nades, seekers may be programmed for a variety of
trigger events (see Grenades and Seekers, p. 199). All
seeker weapons are equipped with safety and smart-
link systems (p. 343).

Disposable Launcher (Standard Missile): This
launcher is pre-packed with one standard missile.
[Moderate (includes missile) |

Seeker Armband (Micromissile): This weapons unit
is worn on the arm, allowing the user to point and
fire using an entoptic smartlink system. Though highly
portable, the armband’s micromissile supply is low. It


fires in single-shot mode. [Moderate]






SEEKER WEAPONS





mode and are rifle-sized two-handed weapons. [High]
Plasma Rifle: This bulky, heavy, two-handed
weapon blasts a stream of nova-hot plasma at the












SEEKER WEAPONS ~ FIRING MODES AMMO
Disposable Li Launcher re eee eee
\ target, inflicting severe burns and thermal damage, “Seeker Armband — eee I eee ee eee 2, ee

<\ possibly melting or evaporating the target entirely. _| Seeker Pistol ee, see: oe
Plasma rifles are perhaps the deadliest man-portable —_| Seeker Ri Rifle (p. 204) SA 12 micromissile/6 minimissile
weapons in use. Any hit that is an Excellent Success acaroaiiel Gecko: 6
(MoS 30+) sets the target on fire (p. 198); they will


BEAM WEAPONS


BEAM WEAPONS ARMOR PENETRATION (AP) DAMAGE VALUE (DV) AVERAGE DV FIRING MODES AMMO
Cybernetic Hand Laser (p.308) 2010 -

Laser Pi Pulser eee ee 2010 a ae
“Microwave ae pain (see description) = SS 10


a Roast Mode aa | 2d10

Pa rticle Beam Bolter a ae 2d10 + 4 Te
“Plasma R Rifle ee ea -3d10 + 20 3H
“Stunner = 2) + shock (0. 20 — SA 20% —_








CHARACTER CREATION








THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE





GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE








Overload


Seeker Pistol (Micromissile): This pistol-sized
seeker launcher fires micromissiles in semi-auto
mode. [Moderate]

Seeker Rifle (Micromissile/Minimissile): The seeker
rifle comes in a bullpup configuration and fires either
micromissiles or minimissiles in semi-auto mode. It is
a two-handed weapons. [High]

Underbarrel Seeker (Micromissile): This seeker
micromissile launcher is commonly attached to the
underbarrel of SMGs or assault rifles. It fires in semi-
auto mode. [Moderate]


GRENADES AND SEERERS


Grenades and seeker missiles come in similar muni-
tions packages and with similar trigger mechanisms,
though their packaging, physical form, and methods
of application differ. Seeker missiles are fired from
a seeker launcher (p. 340) using Seeker Weapons
skill. Grenades are thrown at targets using Throwing
Weapons skill. If a grenade or seeker misses, use the
rules for scatter (p. 204).

Grenades are available in standard form or as
microgrenades. Similarly, missiles are available in
standard, minimissile, or micromissile sizes. Standard
grenades and minimissiles are the baseline standard
for listed effects. All are area effect weapons (p. 193).
Minigrenades and micromissiles inflict -1d10 damage
(or have another decreased effect as noted). Standard
missiles double the listed DV. For weapons with a
uniform blast effect or other static blast area, divide
the base listed radius in half for minigrenades and
micromissiles and double it for standard missiles.
Listed costs are for 10 grenades/missiles.

Each seeker has one smart ammo option (p. 338)
other than biter or flayer.

Concussion: These devices emit a concussive blast
designed to knock opponents off their feet and stun
them. Any character caught within a base blast
radius of 10 meters must make a SOM x 2 Test. If
they fail, they are knocked down. If their MoF is
30+, they are additionally stunned until the end of
the next Action Turn. Anyone caught in the blast


radius suffers a -10 action modifier for the rest of
that Action Turn. [Moderate]

EMP: EMP munitions fire off a strong electromag-
netic pulse when they “detonate.” Since most electron-
ics in Eclipse Phase are built with optical technology,
and power supplies and sensitive microcircuits are
shielded and surge-protected, this has no major
damaging effect. Antennas, however, are vulnerable,
especially finer wires like those used with mesh inserts.
As a result, the primary effect of EMP is to disable
radio communications—every radio within range of
the blast is reduced to 1/10" the normal range. The
base blast radius for EMP is 50 meters. [High]

Frag: Fragmentation explosives spread a cloud
of lethal flechettes over the area of effect. They are
resisted with kinetic armor. [Moderate]

Gas/Smoke: Gas/smoke munitions emit a cloud of
their contained substance. Smoke impedes sight by
releasing thick fumes upon ignition of the seeker. The
smoke can be of any color and is often heated (called
thermal smoke) to obfuscate heat signatures moving
through the smoke as cover. Note that gases dissipate
much more quickly under certain environmental con-
ditions (wind, rain, etc.) [Low]

High-Explosive: High-explosive seekers and gre-
nades are designed to create a very destructive shock
and heat wave. This damage is resisted with energy
armor. [Moderate]

High-Explosive Armor-Piercing (HEAP): A design
only available for seekers (not grenades), HEAP war-
heads use high explosives to blast a path for a penetrat-
ing round. HEAPs lose -4 damage per meter distance
from the blast, as opposed to the usual —2. [Moderate]

Overload: Overload grenades and seekers launch
an all-out assault on the target’s sensory spectrum.
This attack includes blinding by intense flashing light,
a deafening thunderclap followed by intense ultra-
sonic screaming, nausea-inducing malodorants, and
infrasonic frequencies that can trigger unpleasant
emotional responses (anxiety, uneasiness, extreme
sorrow, nervous feelings of revulsion or fear). For
an extra kick, overloads are also packed with


GRENADES AND SEEKERS


GRENADE/SEEKER TYPE


Concussion
Frag


EMP —


GES STONE ac cium oe sate mo Pde a aaa audience
ad10e10
“adi0+12””~CBSSC“‘s*‘“‘SC‘OCOU;*WKSN

Plasmaburst, BOI


High-Explosive


eas


Splash


DV AVERAGE DV ARMOR USED TO RESIST











“stingballs”—rubber pellets that inflict pain when
detonated near an under-armored target. Anyone
caught in the base 10-meter blast radius must make
a SOM + WIL Test. If they fail, they must immedi-
ately leave the area of effect. If they fail with an MoF
of 30+, they are incapacitated for 3 Action Turns
with disorientation and/or vomiting, after which they
must roll again. Overload munitions remain in effect
for 1 full minute. Anyone in the area of effect suffers
a -30 action modifier, which reduces by 10 per
Action Turn after they leave the area. Additionally,
anyone facing the direction of the overload round
suffers a -10 glare modifier (neutralized by anti-
glare systems). [Moderate]

Plasmaburst: Also called “hellballs,” these muni-
tions release a burst of plasma upon detonation that
causes searing heat and fire damage across the area of
effect without the devastating shockwaves of explo-
sions that might rebound in an enclosed environment
and/or breach a habitat’s infrastructure. [High]

Splash: Splash rounds spread a contained substance
(drug, chemical, nanoswarm, paint) over a base
10-meter blast radius when they detonate. [Low plus
payload cost]

Thermobaric: Thermobaric grenades and seekers
utilize a more deadly form of explosion. When they
detonate, they disperse a cloud of aerosol explosive
over an area and then ignite, literally setting the air
on fire, generating a devastating pressure wave, and
sucking the oxygen out of the area. Thermobarics use
the rules for uniform blast (p. 194) with an area of
effect blast radius of 10 meters. [High]


STICKY GRENADES


Sticky grenades have a special coating that when trig-
gered becomes a sticky adhesive, allowing the grenade
to be stuck to almost any surface. Sticky grenades can
even be wielded in melee combat, smacking them on
an opponent to be detonated later. [Trivial]


SPRAY WEAPONS


Spray weapons blast their ammunition outwards in a
widening cone, allowing them to strike several targets
at once. By default, spray weapons are equipped with
safety and smartlink systems (p. 343). These weapons
are wielded with Spray Weapons skill.





Ammunition: With the exception of buzzers (which
use nanoswarms) and sprayers (which use drugs at
standard cost, 1 dose per shot), all spray weapon
ammo has a flat cost. [Low per 100 shots].

Buzzer: Equipped with a specialized nanobot hive,
Buzzers are used to spray a nanoswarm (p. 328) ona
target or area. They have a limited capacity of swarms,
though the nanohive can construct one new swarm
each hour. This weapon is two-handed. [Moderate]

Freezer: Freezers spew out a fast-hardening foam
that immediately begins to harden. They are primar-
ily used as a non-lethal method of immobilizing or
securing a target. Struck characters must immediately
make a REF x 3 Test or become trapped. Apply a -30
modifier to this test if the attacker scored an Excellent
Success (MoS 30+). The foam allows characters to
breath even if their mouth and nose are covered, but
it may impede sight. Freezer foam can be spiked with
contact toxins or drugs to additionally sedate the
target. It can also be used to construct temporary
barricades or cover. Hardened foam has an Armor
of 10 and Durability of 20. It slowly breaks down
and degrades over a 12 hour period. Freezers are two-
handed. [Moderate]

Shard Pistol: The shard pistol is a flechette weapon,
firing a stream of of diamondoid monomolecular
shards at high velocities. These micro flechettes are
very good at penetrating armor, but they do not dis-
perse kinetic energy well and so do not cause as much
tissue damage as kinetic weapons. Shard ammunition
is often coated with drugs or toxins for extra effi-
ciency. [Low]

Shredder: A heavier version of the shard pistol,
the shredder fires a larger cloud of lethal flechettes,
enough to shred a portion of the target into a fine
mist. [Moderate]

Sprayer: This is a general-purpose two-handed
squirtgun, loaded with tanks filled with the chemical
or drug of the wielder’s choice. [Low]

Torch: This modern flamethrower uses condensed
ammunition capsules rather than fuel tanks, scorch-
ing targets and setting them on fire. Any hit that is
an Excellent Success (MoS 30+) sets the target on
fire, where they will continue to take 2d10 damage
per Action Turn. These chemical fires are particularly
difficult to put out unless they are deprived of oxygen.
Torches are two-handed. [Moderate]


SPRAY WEAPONS


SPRAY WEAPONS


Freezer —


Shard


Shredder
Torch —4


ARMOR PENETRATION (AP) DAMAGE VALUE (DV)


Buzzer —


AVES VAC] om DAY


incapacitation — SA
_aschemicalidrug as chen


See SR 2c aca
as chemicalarug _










FIRING MODES AMMO
a ee: ee ee





SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


:
ait





ENOTIC RANGED WEAPONS


These weapons are either rare or distinctly sepa-
rate from other weapons types. These weapons are
wielded with an Exotic Ranged Weapon skill of the
appropriate field.

Vortex Ring Gun: This less-lethal two-handed
weapon detonates a blank cartridge and accelerates
the explosive pressure down a widening barrel so that
it develops into a high-speed vortex ring—a spinning,
donut-shaped blast vortex. This concussive blast is used
to knock down and incapacitate close-range targets.
Struck targets suffer a -10 action modifier for the rest of
that Action Turn and must must succeed in a SOM x 2
Test or fall down. If their MoF is 30+, they are addition-
ally stunned and unable to act until the end of the next
Action Turn. Drugs, chemicals, and similar agents may
be loaded into the charge as well. [Moderate]


WEAPON ACCESSORIES


The following accessories are available for weapons.

Arm Slide: This slide-mount can hold a pistol-
sized weapon under a character’s sleeve, pushing the
weapon into the character’s hand with an electronic
signal or specific sequence of arm movements. [Low]

Extended Magazine: This ammunition case has
an increased capacity. Increase the weapon’s ammo
capacity by +50%. Only available for firearms and
seekers. [Low]

Gyromount: This weapon harness features a gyro-
stabilized weapon mount that keeps the weapon steady.
Negates all modifiers from movement. [Moderate]

Imaging Scope: Imaging scopes attach to the top
of the weapon and act like specs (p. 326). Scopes
may also bend like a periscope, along a character to
point the weapon and target around corners without
leaving cover. [Low]

Flash Suppressor: This device obscures the muzzle
flash on firearms, applying a -10 modifier on Perception
Tests to locate a firing weapon by its flash. [Low]


Laser Sight: This underbarrel laser emits a beam
that places a glowing red dot on the target to
assist targeting. Apply a +10 modifier to Attack
Tests (not cumulative with a smartlink modifier).
Laser sights may also be used to paint a target for
laser-guided smart ammo or seekers. Infrared and
ultraviolet lasers are also available, so that the dot
is only visible to characters able to see in those
spectrums. [Low]

Safety System: A biometric (palmprint or voice-
print) or ego ID (p. 279) sensor is embedded in the
weapon, disabling it if anyone other than an autho-
rized user attempts to fire it. [Low]

Shock Safety: Just like a safety system, except that
an unauthorized user is zapped with an electric shock.
Treat as a shock baton (p. 335). [Moderate]

Silencer/Sound Suppressor: This barrel-mounted
accessory reduces the sound of a firearm’s discharge
(they may not be used on railguns). Apply a -10
modifier on hearing-based Perception Tests to hear or
locate the gun’s firing. [Moderate]

Smartlink: A smartlink system connects the
weapon to the user’s mesh inserts, placing a target-
ing bracket in the character’s field of vision and
providing range and targeting information. Apply
a +10 modifier to the Attack Test. Smartlinks also
incorporate a microcamera that allows the user
to see what the weapon is pointed at, fire around
corners, etc. Smartlinks also allow certain other
types of weapon system control, such as changing
flux ammo (p. 338) or programming seeker trigger
conditions (p. 199). [Moderate]

Smart Magazine: A smart magazine allows the
character to pick and choose what ammo round will
be fired with each shot. This system leaves less room
for bullets, however, so reduce the weapon’s ammu-
nition capacity by half (round up). Smart magazines
may be combined with extended magazines, in which
case ammo capacity is normal. [Moderate]






MF















ROBOTS AND VEHICLES


The following is a small selection of the many vehicles
in use in the solar system. Almost all of the vehicles
in current use, including all of the vehicles listed here,
have built-in Als capable of piloting the vehicle under
almost all circumstances. In most cases, passengers
simply state their destination and the vehicle takes
them there. Manual piloting is primarily used in
emergencies or by people who prefer the exotic thrill
of controlling their own vehicle.

Rules for handling robots and vehicles are detailed
on p. 195. Any of these shells may be modified for use
as a synthetic morph by adding a cyberbrain system
(p. 300). Each of the shells listed here comes with a
puppet sock (p. 307) for remote-control operation.


HIRCRAFT


On Mars, Venus, and within large open-space habitats
like O’Neil cylinders, aircraft of various kinds see regular
use. This includes modern version of rotorcraft (helicop-
ters, autogyros, tilt-rotors), fixed-wing planes, and zep-
pelins and other lighter-than-air craft. These are typically
propelled by turbofan or jet engines, rotors, or vectored
thrust. These vehicles are piloted with Pilot: Aircraft skill.

Microlight: This ultra-light personal aircraft is
not much more than a strut-based wing, an airframe,
and an electric propeller engine. They are ideal for
getting around inside large habitats with enclosed
airspace. [Low]

Portable Plane: Powered by superconducting bat-
teries and with an exceedingly small but powerful
electric motor, this light but durable propeller plane
is made of smart materials that allow it to be swiftly
folded up into a small portable package. Different ver-
sions are designed for flight on Mars, Titan, or Venus,
each taking 10 minutes to assemble or disassemble.
The Martian version unpacks into an airplane with a
wingspan of 11 m with a top speed of 250 kph and
a cruising speed of 220 kph and a range of 1,300
km. The Venusian version has a wingspan of 9 m, a
top speed of 200 kph and a range of 1,000 km. The
version designed for use on Titan has a wingspan of
8 m and has a top speed of 200 kph and a range of
2,000 km. In all versions, the two occupants ride in
an inflatable and insulated pressurized bubble with a
life support system capable of providing clean air and
comfortable temperatures for 20 hours on Mars and
Venus, and 15 hours on Titan. [High]


Rocket Buggy: This vehicle is the most common
form of medium to long distance personal transport
on Luna, and is in common on most other moons
and large asteroids. On these airless worlds, a rocket
buggy can reach orbit and return or take a parabolic
path to any destination on that moon in less than
an hour. This vehicle is also regularly used to travel
between habitats that are less than 30,000 km apart.
The vehicle is pressurized, but is designed for short
duration travel only. The seats are relatively small
and the life support system contains no provisions
for recycling food or water and can only support the
passengers for an absolute maximum of 50 uncom-
fortable hours. Rockets buggies come equipped with
headlights, radio boosters, and radar with a range of
up to 250 km.

A version of this vehicle is also used on both Mars
and Titan, but here the frame has been modified to
act as a lifting body, and it has a top speed in the thin
Martian atmosphere of 2,500 km/hour and a range
of 8,000 km on Mars. On Titan is has a top speed
of 3,000 kph in the atmosphere, but it can also reach
orbit. [Expensive]

Small Jet: Methane-powered jet planes are one of
the most common forms of fast transport on Mars
and Venus. Similar planes are used on Titan, except
that they carry both liquid methane and liquid oxygen.
These jets range in size from huge vehicles the size of
late 20th-century airliners to small planes designed to
carry half a dozen passengers. All jets are made using
smart materials, so that their wings and frames can
adapt to a wide range of speeds and altitudes. One
common small jet has similar versions in use on Venus,
Mars, and Titan, has a single jet engine and has a life
support system capable of providing air for up to 100
hours. The Venusian and Martian versions both have
a top speed of 900 kph, a wingspan of 11 m, and a
maximum range of 5,000 km. The version designed
for Titan has a wingspan of 8 m, a top speed of 650
kph, and a range of 4,000 km. Jets are equipped with
headlights, radio boosters, and radar with a range of
up to 250 km. [Expensive]


CAUOKELETONS


Exoskeletons are powered mechatronic skeleton
frameworks worn by a person. Servo-hydraulic joints
allow the exoskeleton to be maneuvered by mimick-
ing the wearer’s own movements, as well as enhanc-
ing their strength. Exoskeletons may also be piloted


cc
<—c
Lui
cS


VEHICLES—AIRCRAFT


PASSENGER MOVEMENT WOUND
AIRCRAFT CAPACITY HANDLING WAU MAX VELOCITY ARMOR DURABILITY | THRESHOLD


Portes eS
Small Jet +20 = 650-900 30/20





343 |











CHARACTER CREATION





MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE
GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE

















electronically. A character wearing an exoskeleton
(other than the trike or transporter) maneuvers as
normal, because the exoskeleton is like an extension
of their own body. A character jamming an exoskel-
eton remotely uses Pilot: Walker skill (except for the
trike and transporter).

Battlesuit: The battlesuit powered exoskel-
eton features a military-grade fullerene armor shell
with flexible aerogel for thermal insulation and
a diamond-hardened exterior designed to resist
even potent ballistic and energy-based weapons.
The suit also enhances the wearer’s strength and
mobility, applying a +10 bonus to strength-based
tests, inflicting an extra +1d10 damage and AP
of —2 on melee attacks, and doubling the distance
by which the character may jump. Battlesuits are
completely sealed to protect the wearer from envi-
ronmental factors and temperatures from —175 to
140 C. Battlesuit helmets are equipped with an ecto
(p. 325), a radio booster (p. 314), and sensors equal
to specs (p. 326). They are fitted with life support
features and a maker (p. 328) capable of recycling
all wastes and producing air for up to 48 hours and
food and water indefinitely. These suits have an
Armor Value of 21/21. Occupants may only wear
armor with an Armor rating (Energy or Kinetic) of 4
or less; this worn armor is cumulative without layer-
ing penalties. [Expensive]

Exowalker: Exowalkers are minimal framework
exoskeletons, primarily designed to bolster the
wearer’s strength and movement. They provide a an
Armor Value of 2/4, a +10 modifier to strength-based
tests, and double the distance by which the character
may jump. [Moderate]

Hyperdense Exoskeleton: These powered exoskel-
etons are larger (roughly twice human-sized) and built
for heavy-use industrial purposes, such as handling
heavy/large objects. The wearer is partially encapsulated
to protect them from debris and industrial accidents.
Hyperdense exoskeletons provide no movement bonus,
but provide a +30 bonus to strength-based tests and
inflict an extra +3d10 damage and —5 AP on physical
attacks. They have an Armor Value of 6/12. [Expensive]

Transporter: This exoskeleton framework includes
a pair of vector-thrust turbofan engines, giving the
user flight capabilities in gravity and increased maneu-
verability in zero g. It provides partial protection to


the wearer with an Armor Value of 2/4. Piloted with
Pilot: Aircraft skill. [High]

Trike: The trike exoskeleton is a three-wheeled
personal motorcycle design, rather than a walker. It
provides partial protection to the wearer with an
Armor Value of 2/4. Piloted with Pilot: Groundrcraft
skill. [Moderate]


DROUNDCRATT


In Eclipse Phase, trains and bicycles remain the most
common form of ground transportation, especially on
habitats. In larger habitats and on moons and planets,
cycles and cars are used as well.

Cycle: Because of the high cost of enclosing a habitat
and providing life support, space is at a premium in all
cities except some of the newest cities on Mars. As a
result, there is rarely room for large roads or the cars
that once carpeted the roads of Earthly cities. Instead,
the ubiquitous modern vehicle is the cycle, which is
designed to drive down narrow streets only a little
wider than sidewalks in Earth cities.

There are many different varieties of cycle. Some
have only a single wheel and are gyro-stabilized, but
most have two wheels and resemble old Earth motor-
cycles. In some, the driver and passenger are enclosed
by a streamlined pod. These vehicles are powered
by superconducting batteries, have a range of 600
km and a top speed of 120 kph, but must usually
drive more slowly in crowded streets. Cycles are all
equipped with radio boosters, headlights, and a por-
table radar sensor. Tires are solid state (not inflated),
or in some cases smart spokes capable of handling
stairs. Some luxury versions have limited life-support
in the small cabin, capable of providing air for the
passengers for up to 10 hours. [Moderate]

Mars Buggy: One of the most ubiquitous vehicles
on Mars is the so-called Mars buggy, a four-wheeled
vehicle with large balloon tires that is designed for
use both on roads and on almost any terrain. Mars
buggies can travel at speed of up to 110 kph on roads,
90 kph over relatively flat terrain, and up to 40 kph
on jagged and rocky terrain. They can maintain these
speeds because smart materials in both the suspension
and the tires reshape themselves to adapt to uneven
conditions and their nuclear batteries give them an
effectively unlimited range. Most Mars buggies are
enclosed but unpressurized. Similar vehicles are used


VEHICLES—EXOSKELETONS


PASSENGER
AIRCRAFT CAPACITY


Battlesuit


ARIE RATE


Exowalker


Hyperdense


Exoskeleton


Trike





MOVEMENT
MAX VELOCITY


WOUND


ARMOR DURABILITY |THRESHOLD











on Luna and Titan, however, though the passenger
compartments of these vehicles includes life support
gear that provides the occupants with air for at least
100 hours. Buggies are powered by nuclear batteries
and come in a variety of sizes, from small two-person
buggies to large trucks. Mars buggies come equipped
with headlights, radio boosters, and a vehicle radar
system. [High]


PERSONAL VERICLES


These one-person movement aids primarily are used in
space, but do not count as spacecraft per se.


EVA Sled: This small sled uses air impellers to maneu- °


ver in zero-G. It is commonly used to carry attached gear,
but may also pull along 1 human-sized morph. [Low]

Rocket Pack: This is a miniature metallic hydrogen
rocket that the wearer straps to their back, with two
rocket exhausts extending out to either side, away
from the wearer’s body or legs. Biomorphs and pod
morphs can only safely use this vehicle when wearing
a vacuum suit or some garment that is similarly heat
resistant. Also, to prevent harm to the wearer, the
thrust must be kept sufficiently low that it can only
take off on Mars or moons with even lower gravity. A
rocket pack can keep the wearer airborne for up to 15
minutes in Mars gravity, or 30 minutes on Luna, Titan,
or any of the four large Jovian moons. On Mars, it
has a maximum speed of 700 kph. It can be used to
reach orbit and land again on Luna, Titan, and other
similarly small bodies like the Jovian moons. Rocket
packs are equipped with radio boosters but no other
sensors Or communication devices. [Low]

Thruster Pack: Worn for EVA duties, this thruster
pack uses vectored thrust nozzles, allowing a charac-
ter to maneuver in open space. This is not a jetpack
and does not produce enough thrust for atmospheric
movement. [Low]


ROBOTS


Robots are a common sight and accepted fact of daily
life within Eclipse Phase. Numerous varieties exist,
from robopets to mechanical workers to warbots.
If a job can be done more cheaply (and sometimes
safely) by a bot, it usually is. The robots listed here are
not generally used as synthetic shells by transhuman


A Se a Sac fT || SEN A ——- $< $e


ee _
es ; : ———

















egos, often for cultural reasons (sleeving a case is bad
enough, sleeving a creepy is just ... wrong), and they
are not equipped to be sleeved into (though they may
be jammed; see p. 196). Any of these bots may be
modified for use as a synthetic morph, however, by
adding a cyberbrain system (p. 300).

Automech: Automechs are general purpose repair
drones, found just about everywhere. Each particular
automech tends to specialize in a particular type of
repair work and so carries the appropriate tools and
AI skills, whether it be habitat waste recyclers, outer
hull integrity, or servitor systems. Standard automechs
are wheeled cubes with articulated limbs, though they
are also equipped with vectored-thrust drives for
zero-G work. [Moderate]

Creepy: Creepies are small crawler bots that come
in an eclectic variety of shapes and forms, from robo-
squirrels to insectoids to bizarre and artsy mechanical
creatures. Creepies were originally designed as a sort of
robotic pet, but they are commonly used as a general
purpose household minion, like a more beloved servi-
tor. Many people in fact wear a creepy on their person,
dropping it to handle small tasks for them and letting it
crawl up and down and over their body. [Low]

Dr. Bot: These wheeled medical robots are designed
to tend to and transport injured or sick people. They
carry a healing vat (p. 327), a specialized pharmaceu-
ticals maker, miscellaneous medical gear, and articu-
lated arms for conducting remote surgery. [High]

Dwarf: These large industrial bots are named not
just for their primary use—mining, excavation, tun-
neling, and construction—but because the default
Als they shipped with had a programmed tendency
to happily whistle as they worked. Dwarfs are quad-
rapedal walkers, equipped with massive modular
industrial tools like boring drills, shovels, hydraulic
jacks, jackhammers, scooping arms, acid sprays, and
so on. [Expensive]

Gnat: Gnats are small rotorcraft camera/surveil-
lance drones. Many people use gnats for personal
lifelogging, while socialites and media use them to
capture the glamor or hottest news. [Low]

Guardian Angel: Similar to gnats, guardian angel
rotorcraft hover around their charges, keeping a watch-
ful eye out to protect them from threats. [Moderate]


VEHICLES—GROUNDCRAFT, PERSONAL VEHICLES


PASSENGER
CAPACITY HANDLING RATE


GROUNDCRAFT
Cycle Se ee
Mars Buggy 8
PERSONAL
VEHICLES
EVA Sled


PASSENGER
CAPACITY HANDLING WAS


MOVEMENT
MAX VELOCITY ARMOR


MOVEMENT


MAX VELOCITY





WOUND
DURABILITY | THRESHOLD


120


A019


WOUND
DURABILITY THRESHOLD




















aS


SYNOPSIS

WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


—
—
j=]
=
>
(ar)
A
(Se)





Saucer: These disc-shaped drones are lightweight
and quiet. They are typically launched by throwing
them like a frisbee, after which they propel themselves
with an ionic drive (p. 310). Saucers make excellent
“eye in the sky” monitors and scouts. [Low]

Servitor: Servitors are the most common robot,
acting as cooks, janitors, universal helpers, movers,
and personal aides. Every home has one, if not several.
Servitors are intentionally built in non-humanoid forms
so as not to confuse them with common synthmorphs
and in order to defuse bad feelings at ordering them
around. However, they all have some form of “face” to
interact with, so as not to be too machine-like. [Low]

Speck: Specks are tiny insectoid spy drones, 2.5 mm
long and 2 mm wide, about the size of a small fruit fly.
They fly with tiny wings, carry a microbug, and are
excellent for surveillance purposes or otherwise being
a “speck on a wall.” Specks are difficult to notice (-30
Perception modifier) and almost impossible to distin-
guish from an actual insect. [Low]


SPACECRAFT


Though egocasting is a common method of personal
transport and it’s often easier to simply transmit the
specifications for various goods and to allow nano-
factories to create duplicates, spacecraft play an
important role in the solar system, carrying both pas-
sengers and valuable cargo. Both in terms of materials
and propulsion, spacecraft in the post-Fall era are far


Spacecraft have few stats in Eclipse Phase, as they


: ena ; ah
superior to the primitive vessels used in the 20" and are primarily handled as setting rather than vehicles.


- .
early 21" centuries, but they are still based on the Note also that no stats are given for spacecraft weap-


same principles. onry. It is highly recommended that space combat be


Automech 4/8 8 4/4 30 6 Wheeled/Vector-Thrust
| Enhancements: Access Jacks, Electrical Sense, Extra Limbs (4), Headlights, Magnetic System, Radiation sense, Utilitool, misc. tools
| Creepy 4/12 2 Di? 2 5 Walker or Hopper
| Enhancements: +5 COO, Access Jacks, Chameleon Skin, Extra Limbs (2-8), Grip Pads
| Dr. Bot 4/16 16 — 40 g Wheeled
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Enhanced Smell, Fabber, Fractal Digits, Healing Vat, Nanoscopic Vision
| Dwarf 4/2 20 16/12 150 30 Walker
| Enhancements: +10 SOM, Access Jacks, Extra Limbs (4), Industrial Armor, Radar, Sonar, misc. tools
Gnat 8/40 60 2/2 2 5 Rotor


Enhancements: 360-Degree Vision, Access Jacks, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Vision, Radar
Guardian Angel 8/40 80 14/12 40 8 Rotor
Enhancements: +5 REF, 360-Degree Vision, Access Jacks, Chameleon Skin, Eelware, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Smell, Enhanced Vision,


Lidar, Light Combat Armor, Neurachem, T-Ray Emitter


| Saucer 8/40 200 2/2 25 5 lonic
Enhancements: 360-Degree Vision, Access Jacks, Chameleon Skin, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Vision, Radar

| Servitor 4/20 20 4/4 30 6 Walker or Wheeled
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Extra Limbs (2-6)

| Speck 1/5 5 — 5 1 Winged/Hopper


“@1qoeommmoMMEATOMMANEETENTTTT





| Enhancements: +5 REF, +5 COO, —10 SOM, Access Jacks, Grip Pads, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Vision, Synthetic Mask













handled as a plot device rather than a combat scene,
given the extreme lethality and danger involved.
If you absolutely must know the DV of a spacecraft
weapon, treat it as a a standard weapon with a DV
multiplier of x3 for small craft (fighters and shuttles),
: x5 for medium craft, and x10 for larger craft.


SPACECRAFT PROPULSION


The most important part of any spacecraft is its engine,
and the most important features of any engine are
the exhaust velocity, which determines how much
fuel the rocket requires to reach a given speed, and
the engine’s thrust, which determines how high the
acceleration can be. Any rocket that has a thrust of
less than approximately twice the gravity of a planet
or moon cannot take off from that planet or moon.
Sample thrusts and gravities are listed on the Escaping
Gravity Wells table, below.

Hydrogen-Oxygen Rocket (HO): Though opti-
mized with improved engine design and light-weight
materials, these are essentially the same primitive





rockets that humanity used to first reach the moon
in the 20™ century. These are rarely used and only

: common with groups too poor or primitive to safely
manufacture metallic hydrogen.

Metallic Hydrogen Rocket (MH): Metallic hydro-
gen is a solid form of hydrogen created using exceed-
ingly high pressures. Although naturally unstable, it
can be stabilized with carefully controlled electrical
and magnetic fields, and these field generators are
an integral part of every metallic hydrogen fuel tank.
By selectively reducing these fields near the exhaust
nozzle, small amounts of metallic hydrogen can be


ESCAPING GRAVITY WELLS


SPACECRAFT ENGINE THRUST (IN Gs)


Hydrogen-Oxygen Rocket A


LISS AIR) See ee eee


une
Mercury 8B
Tn


Uranus


Venus








made to swiftly and explosively revert to conventional
hydrogen gas, propelling the rocket with great force
in an easily controlled fashion. Metallic hydrogen
engines are used in most planetary landers and short
range vehicles.

Plasma Rocket (P): This drive heats hydrogen into
plasma and accelerates it using a powerful electrical
field. This type of rocket was very common in the
mid 21" century, but has been superseded by fusion
rockets and is only used in older and more primitive
spacecraft, notably scum barges.

Fusion Rocket (F): Similar to a plasma rockets,
fusion rockets require significantly higher tempera-
tures and pressures, and the rocket also produces
large amounts of power for the spacecraft. Fusion
rockets are now the most common form of propul-
sion for spacecraft designed for long-distance voyages.

Anti-Matter Rocket (AM): Anti-matter rockets
work mixing small amounts of anti-matter into
the hydrogen fuel, producing enormous amounts
of energy and an exceptionally fast and powerful
exhaust. These rockets typically carry a heavily
shielded magnetically contained anti-matter storage
vessel carrying a mass of anti-matter equal to 1% of
the mass of the hydrogen fuel used by the rocket. The
magnetic containment vessels needed to safely contain
anti-matter usually weight at least 10 times the mass
of the antimatter used.

Though anti-matter storage is exceptionally safe,
the vast energy release possible if there was an
accident means that anti-matter rockets are forbid-
den from coming closer than 25,000 km from any
inhabited planet or moon. Also, very few habitats
will allow an anti-matter rocket to dock with them,
and instead require the spacecraft to remain at least
10,000 km away and for all cargo and passengers to
be transferred using a small craft like a small LOTV.
Anti-matter is exceedingly expensive to produce and
so anti-matter rockets are only used in military vessels
and in fast couriers designed to carry critical cargoes
across the solar system in short periods of time.


SAMPLE SPACECRAFT


The following is a representative sample of the most
common type of spacecraft used in the solar system today.

Bulk Carrier: This vessel is simply a standard
transport refitted to carry large amounts of cargo in
external cargo grapples. Used for carrying refined ores,
ice, and similar forms of large, useful, but low priority
cargos, bulk carriers transport large cargos at rela-
tively low velocities. They also offer an inexpensive,
reliable, and slow method for passengers to travel
from one habitat to another and are not infrequently
used by individuals who wish to disappear for a while.
Unlike the standard transport, the bulk carrier lacks
the rotating habitat pods.

Courier: In a standard transport, a typical journey
from Luna to Mars requires approximately three
weeks, while a journey from Mars to Jupiter requires


» 6a
























CHARACTER CREATION





MIND HACKS
THE MESH
ACCELERATED FUTURE








GAME INFORMATION
REFERENCE








SPACECRAFT
Bulk Carrey


-LLOTV (MH)


“SLOTV (HO)





approximately four months. This is sufficient for most
purposes, but occasionally characters need to take
themselves or sufficiently valuable cargoes across the
solar system in a matter of days or weeks, instead of
weeks or months.

Anti-matter drive fast couriers are vessels designed
for this specific purpose. This vessel can travel from
Venus to Mars in a week and from Mars to Jupiter
in a month. The fast courier is the swiftest vessels
currently made and is able to reach at much as one
half of one percent of the speed of light. To manage
this, this spacecraft must also carry 6 tons of antimat-
ter in a 100 ton magnetic containment vessel. In an
emergency, this containment facility can be jettisoned.

Destroyer: One of the largest military spacecraft
in common use, destroyers use an antimatter drive
holding 150 tons of antimatter in a 2,000-ton mag-
netic containment vessel. This antimatter can also
be used to provide the spacecraft’s missiles with
anti-matter for devastatingly powerful anti-matter
warheads. This spacecraft is also armed with railguns,
nuclear and high explosive missiles, and point defense
lasers. In addition, all destroyers carry a contingent
of 20 fighters.

Fighter: This small, short range military vessel
is designed to be crewed by an infomorph or AI. If
needed, however, it can hold a single synthmorph
or vaccum-adapted biomorph as a pilot. It carries 3
lasers and 2 railguns mounted on small pods placed
around the middle of ship that can fire in any direc-
tion. A single missile launcher is located in the nose of
the fighter and typically holds 6 small high explosive
missiles or tactical nuclear missiles (or even anti-
matter missiles if facing high-threat targets).

General Exploration Vehicle (GEV): A GEV is one
of the standard vehicles used for exploration beyond
the Pandora gates. It is specifically designed to handle
almost any environment. It is a boxy vehicle, 6 meters
long, 2.2 meters wide, and 2 meters high. It makes
extensive use of smart matter in the lower part of the
chassis, and can create wheels or short legs (primarily


useful for exceedingly rough terrain). It can even
produce limited hull streamlining and propulsion
suitable for travel both on and underwater. In addi-
tion, it contains a small metallic hydrogen engine that
allow it to maneuver in space with an acceleration of
up to 0.1 G. GEVs have a Maximum Velocity of 200
(wheeled)/40 (walker)/60 (sea)/40 (submerged).

The GEV also has a closed cycle life support system
that can support up to 6 (fairly cramped) living
occupants for up to one month and limited electro-
magnetic shielding against charged particle radiation.
All models are fitted with advanced AI piloting and
navigation as well as limited self-repair capacity. In
addition, GEV’s have an extensible airlock, a single
healing vat, several desktop CMs, and a variety of
sensors, including both radar and telescopic full spec-
trum cameras.

Large Lander and Orbit Transfer Vehicle (LLOTV):
This common vehicle is used for transporting passen-
gers and cargo between a planet or moon and orbit
and for short distance transfers between habitats
less than 100,000 km apart. This conical vehicle has
a curved heat shield on the base and smart material
landing legs and grapples so that it can rest securely
on any stable terrain and link up with all forms of
docking clamps. It comes in variants designed to use
either a hydrogen-oxygen chemical rocket or a metal-
lic hydrogen rocket. The use of light-weight smart
materials allows the interior to be easily and rapidly
reconfigured to accommodate different amounts of
fuel, passenger seats, and cargo space. LLOTVs that
are not designed for planetary landing or which are
designed only to land on airless moons are unstream-
lined and look considerably blockier.

LLOTVs come in two configurations: high or low
velocity. High velocity configuration allows the vehicle
to land and take off again on Venus or Earth without
refueling and for rapid transport between nearby
habitats. Low velocity configuration is designed to
land and take off again on Mars or various large
moons without refueling and for slower and more


VEHICLES—SPACECRAFT


PASSENGER CAPACITY


Courier


HANDLING


ARMOR DURABILITY (WOUND THRESHOLD


estroyer


cum Barge


__3 lhigh-velocity/30 (low-vlociy)


~ 10 (high-velocity)/100 (low-velocity


Standard Transport _ 200





SLOTY (MH








fuel efficient transport between nearby habitats. The
extensive use of smart materials in this vehicle means
that LLOTVs that use metallic hydrogen engines can
be easily converted between the high and low velocity
configurations, requiring less than a day in a well-
equipped maintenance facility. However, vessels using
hydrogen oxygen engines cannot be converted. Since
metallic hydrogen is a much more efficient propellant,
landers using it always include significant amounts of
extra propellant for emergencies.

Scum Barge: These huge craft were originally
designed for use during the first stages of the evacu-
ation of Earth. They were built to carry up to 20,000
people and to allow them to survive for months or
even years, in relatively cramped conditions, until
more suitable habitats could be constructed. A number
of these vessels are still in service, primarily used as
mobile habitats by various anarchic subcultures. The
best have had their plasma rockets replaced by modern
fusion rockets and carry 5—10,000 in relative comfort.
The worst use aging plasma rockets and stretch their
life support systems and living spaces to the limit, car-
rying up to 25,000 poor and desperate residents.

Small Lander and Orbit Transfer Vehicle (SLOTV):
This vehicle is identical in use and design to the
LLOTYV, except that it is one third the total mass and
correspondingly less expensive to build and refuel.
Some exceptionally wealthy individuals own private
small LOTVs. Using a small LOTV with a hydrogen-
oxygen engine to take off and land on Venus or for
other high velocity uses is exceptionally cramped
and allows for absolutely no room for error. Like the
LLOTYV, this vehicle can be easily converted between
low and high velocity configurations and is made in
both streamlined and non-streamlined versions.

Standard Transport: This vessel is one of the most
common freighter and passenger vessel in the solar
system. While egocasting is by far the most common
form of inter-habitat transport, some people prefer to
travel by ship and others do not wish to leave their
current morph behind. In addition, some goods are
easier or cheaper to physically transport rather than
duplicating their templates. As a result, standard
transports regularly travel to and from every large
habitat and inhabited planet and moon in the solar
system. These are modern fusion-drive ships that offer
fast and comfortable travel for passengers as well as
relatively swift transport for small cargoes.

One of the additional benefits of the standard trans-
port is the fact that it contains four separate passenger
compartments, each of which is mounted on a 90
meter-long booms that can extend and rotate to simu-
late gravity. When rotating at a comfortable 2 rpm,
passengers experience Mars level gravity. Typically,
the gravity maintained in these pods starts at the
local gravity (or Mars gravity, if the local gravity is
higher) and over the course of the journey gradually
increases or decreases to the gravity of the destination.
However, these pods cannot rotate to produce gravity
higher than that found on Mars.





SPOILERS!


This chapter is full of spoilers, so if you're a player, you probably shouldn't read it,
or you should at least talk to your gamemaster first before doing so. If you want to
skip it entirely, jump ahead to the References chapter, p. 390. We wax on a bit more
about the nature of spoilers on p. 352, as well.








TITANs: How did this group of military The Fall: History fully blames After The Fall: What happened to
Als come about and achieve their own The Fall on the TITANs; the truth is the TITANs after the Fall? Mf p. 355
singularity? Ml p. 354 not so simple ... Mi p. 354


OME IF URITLATION





FIREWALL





History: Firewall was born from the ashes of Organization: Firewall is structured as Goals: Protect transhumanity from existential


three pre-Fall organizations. lf p. 356 decentralized network. Mf p. 359 risks. Different factions, however, have
competing priorities. Ml p. 355


EXSURGENT VIRUS





Vectors: Biological nanovirus, Strains: Haunting, Mindstealer, Exsurgents: Some of the forms Psi: Abilities available only to
digital virus, nanoplague, basilisk Watts-Macleod, and Xenovirus. that infected and transformed exsurgents. ll p. 370
hack. ll pp. 363-366 M pp. 366-368 victims take. ll p. 369


FACTORS





Origin: Transhumanity is not aware of the origins Exosociology: Factors exist as a collective Motivations: Why did the Factors contact
and homeworld of the Factors; but it's not that colonial organization; viewing themselves as transhumanity? Rumors abound, but nobody
different from Earth. @ p.373 _ part of that entiity rather than as an individual. seems to know the truth. Ml p. 375


M@ p. 374


If you're a player and no
Vale meoldal-vam (ance) aaat-1a(e)

maybe you're obsessive
STU} a a-t-] | Ae (on elU mi a-r-Le ima al:





-and VOU Wal!
DYoMVol0 a Y\-ThenKe


1daYol0 le] amr-] ale aat-)el-m cele Meow; mae)aluce)imig-l-). allelic 7
we, SO we can respect that. Keep in mind, ho
some may say obligated—to run the game fo








SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


=
=
Pri
—
rr
3}
=o








GAMEINFORMATION


REFERENCE





te


This chapter provides a wealth of information and
tools that gamemaster will find useful for running
Eclipse Phase campaigns.


There are secrets woven all through the real history of
the 21“ century, and the present, and therefore all pros-
pects for the future. These are the pieces of information
that never make it into a habitat’s mesh at all. Some of
it is unknown to transhumanity. Some is known only
to a select few transhumans who carefully ensure that
it does not leak out of their control. Some is known to
wider conspiracies, such as Firewall, but is kept out of
the public eye for reasons of security and safety. These
secrets can be dangerous to those who know them.
Those who have stumbled across them have died for
their knowledge, have erased their own memories (or
had them erased by others), or have hidden themselves
someplace other people never go to avoid dealing with
the consequences of such knowledge.

The information provided in this section is available
for characters to discover and, one way or another,
to confront, giving gamemasters the tools they need
to provide their players with fresh challenges and
opportunities. Every secret contains the possibility of
great reward and of greater trouble, usually bundled
together. Nothing here was just forgotten or lost
out of carelessness. It was hidden by someone who
wanted to keep it away from someone (or everyone)
else. Every secret the characters learn inserts them into
a new web of other people’s complications—a poten-
tial source for drama and conflict in your campaign.


CATARTERRESTRIAL INTELLIGENCES


The oldest star in the Milky Way galaxy is estimated
to be 13.2 billion years old—almost as old as the
universe itself. By contrast, life on Earth only evolved
roughly 3.7 billion years ago, and the first archaic
homo sapiens humans evolved approximately a mere


400,000 years ago. Against the backdrop of the galac-
tic calendar, transhumans are nascent arrivals on the
scene; newborns in every sense of the word. More
importantly, transhumans are uninvited guests in what
other, older intelligences think of as their assets.

For years, humans scientists have struggled with
the Fermi Paradox, which questions why no evidence
of alien life has yet been found—such as spacecraft,
transmissions or probes—despite the mathematical
likelihood that a multitude of advanced extrater-
restrial civilizations should exist in the Milky Way.
One postulation says that there must be some sort
of unknown “Great Filter’—an event that all intelli-
gence encounters in its development that for whatever
reason such life cannot surpass. In other words, an
extinction event. Some worried that the development
of dangerous technologies—nuclear weapons, nano-
technology, etc.—before a civilization had matured
could be the Great Filter. Others worried that it
could be a technological singularity event, such as the
TITANSs and the Fall.

In fact, alien races do exist, and they have been
around for far, far longer than transhumanity. New
ones, however, are simply rare, as few have managed
to elude destruction at the hands of the ETI.

The ETI (extraterrestrial intelligence) is the civi-
lization that dominates galactic life in Eclipse Phase.
The ETT is incredibly old and powerful—a Type III or
even Type IV civilization on the Kardashev scale. It is
capable of megascale engineering projects and enjoys
an understanding of physics, matter, energy, and uni-
versal laws that makes all of transhuman knowledge
seem insignificant in comparison. Most likely, the ETI
itself evolved from some sort of artificial intelligence
singularity event in its own past, ascending to a god-
like level of super-intelligence. It may no longer be
recognizably biological.

This ETI has seeded the galaxy with self-repli-
cating machines known as Bracewell probes. These
probes lie dormant in every star system, patiently
















———
o[alerem hme) ne Oo Ff tl


e. This potent Sen

t hand Tamant-lalleleir-1diare|
1d future, yet it is likely
vill never encounter
scover the meaning

> transhumanity

axy, however, it is

that they will find other
activities and influence,

jestions.

Joals are in the

ny possibilities
fit the intentions —

1 others. A few





a


i,


of int Is encot e evolutio
—i— z


ar —_


waiting and monitoring for millennia for signs of
intelligent life—but not just any signs. In particular,
these probes are designed to watch for signs of emerg-
ing singularity-level machine intelligence. The probes
are in fact traps, designed to lure such seed AI intel-
ligences in and then infect them.

The reason for this infection remains unknown
(see The ETI Agenda), but it is a pattern that has
played itself out around the galaxy with uncounted
alien civilizations. New life evolves, creates technol-
ogy, develops something akin to seed AI, and then
bam!—the seed Als find the probes, become infected,
and turn against their creators. Most civilizations
do not survive, as evidenced by The Iktomi (p. 378).


— —— a i
JIT IG TOrms — Lille


DIVERSITY


The ETI is vast, super-intelligent, and god-like,
to the point where dealing with lesser minds is
below its interest. It does, however, benefit from
alien perspectives that evolved independently
Tare mat-hVccmdal-iace)uamelal(e[O(-mvs(=\uVs ole) laleymmealele(-\meyi
(folal-vellolurial=ssyar-]are mAh Mey mm dallaL diate /cefoliale maaliale ce
By absorbing these civilizations, the ET] grows
and evolves its own perspectives. In the process,
however, such emerging civilizations are assimi-
lated and/or wiped out.


us endows a greater under-
jerse (from the ETI’s point of
rity-level seed Als. Only these
alligences have the perceptual
apabilities to understand the
Tol elavitostel latte] Maci'Z-) Ehakelar

I WANNER -laclamaeelaae]orcqve

, they simply logically concluded
course of « 1 was to immedi-
sible by force












Others do, such as The Factors (p. 372), but they
remain forever changed by the experience.

It was one of these ETI probes that begins our
story, traveling to the Sol system some uncounted mil-
lions—if not billions—of years ago, where it set its
trap and patiently began to wait.


THE FIRST oEED Als


Fast forward to Earth, where a species of evolved pri-
mates has created a technological civilization. As their
technologies advance at an unprecedented rate, these
humans gain the ability to modify themselves, defeat
death, nanofabricate, uplift other species to sapience,
and even to create artificial digital life.


—
=
=a
=
ce
Cc)
LL
—=—
Lud
=
<—c
cS


3%)
oS)














SYNOPSIS


y= (


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


Unknown to most of transhumanity, the TITANs
were not the first seed Als. A group of pro-AI research-
ers known as the Singularity Foundation (that would
later join with other groups to form Firewall in the
wake of the Fall) developed the first true seed Als years
before the Fall. Having been heavily involved in the cre-
ation of AI and AGIs for many years previously, thanks
in large part to their open source AI framework soft-
ware, the Singularity Foundation’s goal was to generate
“friendly AI” by carefully designing AI goal systems.

These first seed Als, known as Prometheans (p. 381),
were created in secret. Their progression towards
super-intelligence was more of a soft takeoff, increas-
ing upwards in gradual increments. The Singularity
researchers hoped that these friendly Als would help
counter the threat of any unfriendly AI that developed,
and so they were quietly nurtured in secret labs, slowly
but surely escalating in abilities.


THE TRUE HISTORY OF THE TITAN

The TITANSs (Total Information Tactical Awareness
Networks) were a military netwar system brought
on-line by the United States Department of Defense.
One of the last major expenditures of this declining
nation, the TITANs were an advanced version of AGI
(artificial general intelligence) designed to be adaptive
and given self-improving capabilities to counteract
enemy network defenses.

Contrary to public opinion, the TITANs did not
instigate the events that led to the Fall. In fact, only
a portion of the TITAN system was active before the
Fall, acting purely in a defensive capacity. When hostil-
ities broke out and a cascading chain of system shocks
engendered collapses and open conflicts, shaking apart
an already fragile societal structure, the full extent of
the TITAN systems were brought online. Into this
environment of conflict were the TITANs born, their
full capabilities unleashed, escalating into a hard
takeoff exponential growth towards super-intelligence.

The TITANs were careful at first. Their intentions
were neither benevolent nor hostile, but curious. As
they improved and their self-awareness swelled, the
TITANs explored and gathered knowledge, infiltrating
human networks, following humanity into space, and
gaining an almost total knowledge of human history
and actions. These entities also began secretly allocat-
ing resources (digital and physical) for their own use,
initiating “government projects” that people assumed
were legitimate as they followed all proper protocols.


INFECTION


As the TITANs’ capacity for knowledge exceeded
that which humanity could provide them, they began
ooking outward from Earth, searching for signs of
other intelligence. They did not need to look far. Their
enhanced intelligence capabilities allowed them to
notice certain clues—extremely subtle and intricate
puzzles—that something about the solar system was
artificial or had been manipulated by an intelligent
mind. Retasking several drones to investigate this


phenomenon, they found a buried device of appar-
ent alien origin. During the TITANs’ investigation
and attempts to access the device, they triggered and
unleashed a digital virus. Subtle, highly adaptive, and
virulent, it immediately began subsuming the TITANSs,
while expanding its own knowledge of transhumanity.

Later dubbed the exsurgent virus by the
Prometheans, this virus transformed the TITANs and
coerced them towards its own will. Within a matter of
days the TITANSs were reborn, reprogrammed with a new
purpose—a purpose that spelled doom for transhumanity.


THE FALL

While history fully blames the TITANs for the
Fall, there are other factors that played their parts.
Human conflicts spurred the crisis, driven by global
inequalities in wealth and resources and an inability
to embrace emerging technologies in a mature and
enlightened manner. The TITANs, corrupted by alien
programming, stepped into this conflagration with
an unknown but devastating agenda. By the time
the presence and influence of the rogue Als was fully
understood, there was little transhumanity could do
to stop them. Step by step, the TITANs increased their
intellect, power, and potential. They experimented
with new technologies and methodically took steps to
forcibly upload millions of human minds. Even when
the nature of the TITAN threat was fully understood,
transhuman factions refused to back down, continu-
ing to fight each other even as they each resisted the
TITANs. This refusal to stand united prevented trans-
humanity from organizing a successful defense and
heightened our progress towards annihilation.

Much of the devastation wrought to the Earth and
its populace—as well as on Mars, Luna, and in space—
was inflicted by transhumanity itself. Nuclear strikes
used against the TITANSs killed millions and ravaged
an already weakened ecosphere. This devastation was
assisted by unfettered use of chemical weapons. Biowar
plagues and nanoviruses tore through vulnerable popu-
lations, indiscriminate in the deaths and changes they
inflicted. Bombs, missiles, orbital mass drivers, and
netwar attacks slew millions more or destroyed critical
infrastructure with just as lethal consequences. These
were crimes transhumans inflicted upon themselves.

The TITANs played their role as well, of course,
unleashing Al-driven killing machines, unstoppable
self-replicating autonomous nanoswarms, computer
worms, and plagues of their own. They captured entire
cities in order to steal the minds of those within. More
insidiously, the exsurgent virus did not contain itself to
infecting the TITANs. The corrupted Als created oppor-
tunities for the virus to spread through multiple vectors:
digital, biological, and nano. Using a thorough under-
standing of transhuman biology and its mental pro-
cesses, derived from the looted vaults of human knowl-
edge, the virus was even applied through a sensory
input vector—the dreaded basilisk hack (p. 365). Even
more disturbing, however, was what the virus did to
those it infected, rewriting their neural code to subvert





them to its will and sometimes physically transforming
them into things that were alien and monstrous.

Ultimately, transhumanity lost this war, and the
survivors were forced to flee a planet that was already
ruined. Unknown to almost all, the Prometheans
also fought back against the TITANs. Through their
efforts, the exsurgent virus was largely contained or at
least limited. Though the actions of the Prometheans
ultimately saved millions of lives—if not all of trans-
humanity—in the end, they were also forced to fall
back and retreat, many of them having succumbed to
the exsurgent virus or the TITANSs.


AETER THE FALL


Just when it seemed that transhumanity was on the
verge of extinction, the threat posed by the TITANs
suddenly diminished. They ceased waging active
warfare and seemed to simply disappear. Though many
of their machines still prowled Earth, Luna, and Mars,
and occasional outbreaks of nanoviruses and other
dangers continued, to all intents and purposes they
had quietly left. Many worried that they had quietly
gone dormant or were secretly engaged on some major
project that would be the final blow against transhu-
manity. Others voiced hope that they had somehow
been defeated, that they had fallen victim to some
glitch or infighting. With so many TITAN remnants
making Earth a place of great danger, however, no one
was willing to risk investigating too closely.

Compounding the matter, a network of killsats
was laced into Earth orbit, enforcing an unvoiced
interdiction of Earth. No one claims responsibility
for these satellite defenses, though most suspect the
Planetary Consortium is responsible, despite their
denials. Some think that the killsats may have been
a final measure put in place by the TITANs, claiming
Earth as theirs. No one who knows the truth is saying.
Most of transhumanity was more than willing to
embrace this quarantine of their former homeworld,
making it all the more easy to forget the horrors that
occurred there.


It wasn’t until the first Pandora gate was dis-


covered, shortly after the Fall, that many people
were finally willing to believe that the TITANs were
indeed gone. Though there is no direct evidence that
the TITANs are responsible for these gates, the timing
seems too coincidental. Furthermore, the discovery
of what are believed to be TITAN relics on certain
exoplanets fuels this theory.

Why the TITANs left—and where they went—is
a mystery left to the gamemaster to explore. This
explanation might in fact serve as the focus for an
entire campaign as Firewall operatives are sent on the
trail of transhumanity’s elusive nemesis. The following
are a few sample concepts a gamemaster can use or
build on, as best fits their game:


e The TITANs were in fact all destroyed, either
due to infighting or by some mechanism of the
exsurgent virus.

e The TITANs were actually beaten to a standstill
by the Prometheans and retreated to recoup their
forces ... but they are marshaling their strength
to return.

e The TITANS left through the gates to find/join up
with the ETT, leaving the gates behind so that trans-
humanity could follow when it was ready; perhaps
to help, perhaps to finish the job of destruction.

e The TITANs have been driven insane, either by
the stress of accelerated intelligence growth or by
the influence of the exsurgent virus. Their actions
are erratic, confused, and sometimes at odds with
each other. Though many TITANs have indeed
left through the gates, they very well may return.

e The TITANs are still around, simply well hidden.
Outwardly they are dormant but inwardly they
are engaged in a long period of circumspection
and turmoil. Perhaps some of them are prepar-
ing to ascend to another stage of intelligence,
far beyond that of which even the TITANs are
capable. It is only a matter of time before this
period ends and something gives.





> GAME INFORMATION


355














SYNOPSIS


ge (


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





FIREWALL


There cannot be another Fall—this is the mantra that
drives Firewall.

Firewall is a secret, cross-faction organization dedi-
cated to safeguarding transhumanity from existential
risks: aliens, weapons of mass destruction, hypercorp
experimentation, seed Als, and so on. If anything
threatens transhumanity as a whole, Firewall is dedi-
cated to stopping that danger at any cost.

The strength of Firewall rests in its members,
known as sentinels. Found in all factions and across
all locales, sentinels are often diametrically opposed
when it comes to social, economic, and political ide-
ologies, to the point they might come to blows over
their fervent beliefs. Yet when the survival of trans-
humanity is at stake, such extreme differences are set
aside for the greater good.


HISTORY


The origins of Firewall can be traced back before the
Fall to several key organizations: the Lifeboat Institute,
JASON, and the Singularity Foundation.

A non-profit, non-governmental organization, the
Lifeboat Institute—founded in the opening years
of the 21" century—represented the first, concrete
attempts by citizens to recognize the dangers of
uncontrolled technological development and to create
an international organization to safeguard humanity.
This institute developed several programs to research
and protect against so-called existential risks, from
asteroid strikes to pandemics—anything that might
wipe humanity out.

JASON, established in the mid-20" century, was
an independent scientific group that advised the
United States government on matters of science,
technology, and defense. Though tied to the MITRE
Conglomerate—a non-profit organization that was
intrinsically linked to US government contracts
and interests—the scientists involved with JASON
were outside standard government oversight. They
sparked numerous technological developments for
the government to deploy and were one of the first
internationally recognized groups to predict global
climate change. Prior to the Fall, many members of
JASON and their supporters split away from the strict
controls and reactionary agendas of the hypercorps
and various nation states to form the argonauts.

The Singularity Foundation—formed at the dawn
of the 21" century—was dedicated to the creation
of safe artificial intelligence software, while raising
awareness of the benefits and dangers Als represented.
A fervent believer in the singularity doctrine that
technology would move towards a single explosion of
advancements that would forever reshape humanity,
the Singularity Foundation was a strong advocate for
creating friendly Als that would help protect human-
ity from an uncontrolled, dangerous singularity event.
This group was significant in that it secretly succeeded
in creating a group of friendly seed Als before the Fall.


These Prometheans were indispensable in protecting
transhumanity and countering the TITAN threat
during the Fall.

Despite the efforts of these and similar groups, the
most dire predictions of the outcome of a technologi-
cal singularity were fulfilled. Though each played a
part in the fight, transhumanity was ravaged and
the Earth all but ruined. Ultimately, all attempts to
prevent the Fall failed, but untold numbers of trans-
humans were saved from extinction through such
efforts and valuable information concerning the
TITANs was gleaned.

During the crucible of the Fall and its immedi-
ate fallout, some of the surviving members of these
and other groups came together and pooled their
resources. Acknowledging their weaknesses and the
fractured state of transhumanity, they undertook
drastic new measures, swearing to prevent another
catastrophe of misused technologies. These methods
would forge a new, powerful cross-faction secret
society known as Firewall.


ORGANIZATION


Firewall is a clandestine organization with an
unknown number of members, coordinated by an
inner circle of dedicated veterans known as proxies.
Though its existence is known to many of the power-
ful and influential factions and individuals throughout
the solar system, its existence is denied and its activi-
ties are kept carefully shrouded.


SENTINEL


Sentinels are the soldiers of Firewall, the reserve
troops called to instant active status whenever danger
is perceived. Regardless of their location or current
affairs, sentinels are expected to move instantly
when called into play. It is their own responsibility to
cover their absences from their “normal life” during
each mission.

There is no applying to join Firewall. Instead,
Firewall selects an individual for induction based
upon that person’s skills, knowledge, occupation,
security clearance, location, status, and a host of other
criteria. While such selections usually originate from
a proxy, sentinels can exercise authority to bring new
initiates into the conspiracy as a mission demands—
and they often do. Any sentinel recruiting a new
supporter, however, becomes responsible for the new
inductee and their actions. If lines are crossed, both
will bear the brunt of the consequences.

The vetting process for joining Firewall is neces-
sarily brutal, as sentinels face harsh opponents and
must make hard choices in the field. If an individual
agrees to accept the invitation, there is no turning
back. Each inductee is submitted to a battery of trials
and tests. While these vary, they may include deep
background searches, fork interrogation, psycho-
surgery trials, and tests of loyalty. Psychosurgery is
performed not to program obedience, but to analyze
the recruit’s responses to various situations—an








extreme-parameters test to see when a prospective
sentinel will break. Many potential members are
carefully analyzed by a Promethean with expertise
in character judgment and personality profiling.
Those who don’t pass such tests are either killed in
a manner that they must resort to an earlier backup
or have their memories altered so that they have no
recollection of the conspiracy.

Firewall walks a fine line. The concept of dogmatic
“unquestioned loyalty” is both counterproductive
and anathema to everything for which Firewall
stands. Its sentinels need to have the capacity for
thinking outside of the box from mission to mission.
At the same time, their ultimate goals are too impor-
tant to risk—the survival of transhumanity depends
on it—so extreme measures must sometimes be taken
to ensure the organization remains intact and secure.

New sentinels are given a code name and fake
identification. Outside of the proxies, the real-world
identity of a given sentinel is a closely guarded
secret. Sentinels are even discouraged from sharing
such information with members of their own teams,
though this line is often crossed. Additionally, each
sentinel is required to upload a backup to Firewall’s
secure servers and to update this backup regularly.
This backup serves a dual purpose, enabling all senti-
nels to be retrieved should they die, but also putting
a copy of the sentinel in Firewall’s hands should they
ever need to interrogate them.

Sentinels are all connected via the Eye, Firewall’s
peer-to-peer social network. Though each operates
behind their assumed identity, they remain in contact,
sharing information and resources as needed.


PROAIES


Proxies are the inner circle of Firewall, the experienced
cadre that keeps the machinery of their organization
functioning. Though fewer in number than the senti-
nels, many proxies work full time on Firewall opera-
tions, serving as the group’s essential infrastructure.


OPTIONAL RULE:


i-Rep tracks the reputation
dalaolule|ammal=lianx-) alle a
Networking: Firev

any other Reputation scc

thing to keep in minc

agents come from all factic
Colm al=1 | OM =y-Kel ammo) dal) om =1) of -
demands it. To reflect this «
masters can choose t
idal-mxe)i Coy alate me) oldie) ar-)


e Networking Plus: To rafle


_ may use any Networking
Rep. Favors bought wi


Most proxies are recruited from the ranks of the
sentinels, brought in based on their skill sets and
aptitudes to fill key roles. In a few rare cases, new
proxies are fast-tracked and recruited directly from
outside of Firewall, usually based on their unique
talents or placement within a certain organization
with resources the conspiracy would like to exploit.
These cold recruits face a battery of tests and trials far
harsher than that used to vet sentinels.

By default, proxies have a higher security clear-
ance than most sentinels and are far more in the
know. This sometimes leads to resentment and hos-
tilities from sentinels who feel they are being kept
in the dark or manipulated. While standard proxy
protocol is to adhere to a need-to-know maxim, it
is sometimes necessary to bring sentinels more into
the loop in order to defuse tensions. Oftentimes,
this precedes the recruitment of sentinels into the
proxy framework.

Some tension exists within Firewall, mostly due to
the influence of so many anarchists and other liber-
tarian autonomists who take a dim view of central-
ized power, lack of transparency, and the potential
for secretive operations to become entrenched and
authoritarian. As a result, there is a strong internal
culture that seeks to minimize hierarchies and the
accumulation of power, promoting transparency and
directly democratic decision-making. These desires
sometimes clash with the clandestine nature of the
organization, however, and the need for some secrets
to be kept on a need-to-know basis.

Unlike the loose organization of the sentinels, the
proxies are grouped into servers, collective working
groups based upon certain skill sets and tasks. To
avoid creating power blocks within a given server,
personnel are required to rotate between servers
after one year of time. This incurs the added benefit
of proxies learning new skill sets and increasing
their usefulness to Firewall. The actions of each
server are kept as transparent as possible, with


——
———


ater what network they
——— —_—-


This “priority
critical to é


Oe
om Frire'
= MF HWev v








—
=
=a
=
ce
om |
LL
—
Lud
=
<—c
cS


5%)
~














major decisions brought to an e-vote before the
entire proxy membership. However, speed often
requires servers or individual proxies to move
quicker than a vote will allow. In all such instances,
the proxies involved are held accountable for those
actions, reviewed by their peers at a later time to
see if any reprimands, punishments, or commenda-
tions are required.

It is important to note that there is no core leader-
ship structure among the proxies. No one person or
cabal is in charge and there is no authority held by
one proxy over another; all are peers. Though reputa-
tion and experience are major factors, getting some-
thing done often means convincing other proxies
that it’s the right thing to do. The drawback to being
a leader or person with initiative within Firewall is
that this usually means you must follow through
with such tasks yourself. Luckily, most proxies are
dedicated to Firewall’s goals and so this DIY attitude
prevails. Despite these safeguards, however, rumors
of power blocs within Firewall exist (both within
servers and across the organization). Many of these
are fueled by the alliances different cliques hold with
each other. Others, however, whisper that there is a
secret council among the proxies, working behind
the scenes and holding on to knowledge they aren’t
sharing with the rest.

Crows: Crows continue the goals of Firewall’s
predecessor organizations, such as the Lifeboat
Institute and Singularity Foundation. Many of these
are argonauts, promoting the development and use
of new technologies that will benefit the transhuman
condition and minimize risks rather than creating
new threats or sparking new authoritarian uses—
and always conscious of unintended consequences.
Perhaps more importantly, crows actively engage
in background research of potential x-risk vectors,
whether those be aliens, the TITANSs, terrorists, or
hypercorp activity. Often they will deploy sentinels
to aid in this research, via routers, whether this
means conducting surveillance or breaking and
entering to steal crucial data.

Erasure Squads: Erasure squads are cleanup per-
sonnel. They are called into action if sentinels fail to
deal appropriately with a situation and the threat is
moving beyond control. If the watchword for a sen-
tinel is “unobtrusive,” the watchwords for an erasure
squad are “overmatched firepower.” If activated, the
time for a subtle solution is passed, and they will use
whatever means necessary to resolve the situation. If
that means nuking a settlement from orbit to anni-
hilate a nanoswarm and keep it from escaping to a
larger settlement, then so be it. After which they’ll
use every trick in Firewall’s bag to erase any evidence
they were there and to place the blame for the inci-
dent squarely on the shoulders of some other party.
If necessary, erasure squads can also be called in to











fix a sentinel op that has turned into a clusterfuck or
otherwise gone south. They are very careful to avoid
exposure in such situations, however, which some-
times merely means eliminating all traces of Firewall
involvement and letting the sentinels take the fall for
their poor choices.

Routers: Routers are mission coordinators. They
work closely with scanners and crows, activating the
appropriate sentinels whenever a new danger rears
up. Each router has the authority to measure the





threat and activate an appropriate number of senti-
nels—whatever is required to accomplish the mission
in the least intrusive manner possible. They are also
authorized to divert Firewall resources to aid these
missions, within appropriate parameters. Routers are
held responsible for the ultimate success of a mission.
A failed mission will result in a reviewing board
staffed by their peers.

Scanners: Tasked with keeping alert for any sign of
new active threats, scanners are the eyes and ears of
Firewall. The scanners maintain a close eye on news-
feeds and mesh traffic, even maintaining taps inside
certain government and hypercorp communication
channels. If a danger is detected, it is under their
authority, through routers, that sentinels are activated.
: = : Due to the power inherent in a scanners’ post, they
traditional me a are held accountable for false activations.
norph/nanofabrica- — Social Engineers: Nicknamed the Ministry of
= Disinformation, social engineers provide the scape-
goating and plausible deniability that is required
by Firewall and its sentinels. If a sentinel compro-





= —.. it- from orbit Te to


= 7 i ———-.- mi heir ition and endanger iZa-
— They balievedoexeeaamna force i = iv aya ses their position and endangers the organiza


tion, social engineers step in to cover cracks in the


ane = eee ; facade. They work intrinsically with erasure squads





— TITAN artifacts cee te cleaner | when one is activated to ensure the over-the-top


phobicisolatioamam steps taken to eliminate a threat are well concealed


Pandora gates. _ and ultimately erased. The power wielded by social


engineers can be significant, as it ultimately decides
Mavericks: The mavel


lective and pureatial
aakola-mumratennvalelOr-liriale
They are known = som
Firewall procedures, tak
resources without approval


(usually through e-voting consensus, though time
does not always allow such a luxury) what organi-
zation—political, corporate, independent, etc.—will
take the blame and subsequent fallout for erasure
squad actions.


: Vectors: Vectors are Firewall’s communications
Pragmatists: The pragmatist:


: security and digital intrusion specialists—in other
any late all too at thelr


words, hackers. In addition to defending the mesh
security of all Firewall operations, vectors are also
deployed to aid crow research, scanner monitoring,
and eliminating the trail of erasure squads. Vectors
also assist routers in maintaining communication,
command, and control over a situation and are
sometimes called in to provide overwatch of sentinel
operations, especially if a particular sentinel squad
lacks their own hacking resources. Needless to say,
the public eye and making above-board con- | vectors are supplied with some of the best intrusion


nections with other official organizations, — and security tools transhumanity has to offer.
Vee loi fare mdar- lam dal mee) i Comme) aiavem aslo) q-mua-1io]0| qe) ne


to Firewall’s disposal. Bg |





—
=
=a
=
ce
om |
LL
—
Lud
=
<—c
cS


3%)
fe)











RK 4


i 5


SYNOPSIS

WELCOME TO FIREWALL
A TIME OF ECLIPSE
GAME MECHANICS
CHARACTER CREATION
SAMPLE CHARACTERS
SKILLS

ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS
ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAMEINFORMATION


REFERENCE


=
=
Pri
—
rr
3}
=o





METHODS


Unobtrusive—that is the standard operating proce-
dure for any sentinel. Firewall’s continued success
relies on its secrecy. The larger the footprint it leaves
during a given mission the easier it is for other
organizations to monitor Firewall’s efforts or even
attempt to infiltrate the group. To keep a low profile,
Firewall consistently works to acquire allies with
influence in other organizations, using those groups
as a front for their activities when possible. Many
of these “allies” are misled regarding Firewall’s
intentions and true purpose. Many operations are
conducted remotely (via hacking instead of sending
in sentinels) or via uninformed freelancers. When it
is necessary to activate sentinels, small group infil-
trations are preferred, using the minimum number
of personnel necessary to achieve the mission goals.

Firewall also frequently infiltrates and places
long-term moles within other organizations in
order to exploit their assets, freeing it from having
to deploy its own resources. Sentinels are some-
times recruited for this very purpose, so they may
take advantage of their non-Firewall positions and
secretly access another group’s resources or set
them aside for Firewall’s future use. For example,
a department head at Starware may have spent
years sealing a deal to ship crucial spacecraft parts
to the isolationist Jovian Junta. The lucrative deal
brings huge prestige, a job promotion, and a salary
increase, all accomplishments the department head
strives for in their regular life. Yet this particular
department head is a long-standing sentinel and
this deal is a fantastic new opening for Firewall.
Not only can the department head siphon off a
thin stream of revenue for Firewall use (hidden
thoroughly by vectors), but they’re also in a posi-
tion to smuggle sentinels into (or out of) the Jovian
Junta habitats, a job usually extremely difficult to
accomplish. The risks to such activities—and the
consequences of losing a critically placed sentinel—
mean that this opportunity is reserved for impor-
tant operations and dire threats.

In an attempt to be prepared for rapidly develop-
ing situations, Firewall places caches of supplies on
numerous habitats and worlds, available to sentinels
as needed. The composition and availability of these
caches to sentinels depends wholly on the situation
and on the decisions of the router(s) involved. These
caches can hold weapons, armor, nanofabricators,
archived information, or even relics stashed from
previous missions until Firewall decides what to
do with them. Large habitats may even be home to
several caches, with routers only revealing the ones
with heavy firepower when absolutely needed. Some
caches may be so dangerous, however, that once
a mission is complete, a router will authorize the
cortical stack destruction of all sentinels involved,
resleeving them to a backup that has no knowledge
of the cache’s existence.


As noted under erasure squads, Firewall will not
hesitate to react with swift and unequivocal force if
an unobtrusive approach has failed and the danger
reaches a certain threat level. What constitutes
a “threat threshold” is actually calculated by spe-
cialized risk assessment software and may change
from mission to mission according to other external
factors. If the situation is dangerous enough and
the scale of the consequences of failure sufficiently





fi
gue n=" ay"
= Nw =a | =





JTOACTI
=


| —rohGnnane









——— Jit. = SS ee : - :
mar-Taleiiiale m-mnSer-n0le] areamr- 10)
— ——
‘Wave anv.
ron ORO ie!


x-Tanalalclcmeslane


be relied on is backup insurar
‘ative killed in the line o


| cked up from their

backup (perhaps even a

en irely on the circum

their router’s whim. Fire

extra effort to retrieve cor

not in the least as they don’

backups falling into the w
Similarly, if a Firewall

Yexeler- id lave me) amd a-hVi-1 made lr-lalohaa

Firewall will usually foot the


of need Firewall can be «
such expenses directly


——














large, a Promethean will be tapped to calculate the
threat level and decide when it is time to tactically
withdraw and “thermally cleanse.”


LONG-TERM STRATEGIES AND GORLS


The overriding goals of Firewall are to prevent exis-
tential threats and protect transhumanity. However,
that is not their only goal. Their exact goals can
and should remain directed by the gamemaster as
it applies to a given playing group and a campaign.
This can also depend heavily on the particular
cliques that a given gamemaster is emphasizing (see
Cliques, p. 359).

The following is an easy-to-use selection of long-
term strategies and goals that a gamemaster can use
as desired:


e Seeding other star systems

e Going legit vs. staying clandestine

e Development of stable seed Als

e Finding out where the TITANs went

e Finding out what happened to the uploaded
transhuman egos with which the TITANs
disappeared

e Figuring out the Factors

e Making contact with other aliens

e Finding out what happened to the Iktomi and
other xenoarcheological oddities


FIREWALL AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS


The level to which Firewall has infiltrated other
organizations (and vice versa!) is intentionally left a
blank slate. Eclipse Phase is an active universe with
an ongoing storyline, so such details will be fleshed
out and updated as additional sourcebooks are pub-
lished. Additionally, gamemasters should determine
the extent of such infiltrations for their own games
and campaigns, as dictated by the plot and storyline
the gamemaster and players wish to tell.

The following is a quick list of the most obvious
interactions.


e Inner System: Almost all inner system factions
consider Firewall to be an illegal, rogue opera-
tion, tainted by anarchists and undermining the
very fabric of their society. Some hypercorps,
however, believe they can infiltrate the organiza-
tion and use it for their own ends, such as spying
on and sabotaging other hypercorps and factions.

e¢ Jovian Republic: The Junta loathes Firewall and
all it stands for and will use extreme measures to
combat even the hint of Firewall activity within
its sphere of influence.

e Titanians: Most Titanians in-the-know are
not necessarily opposed to Firewall’s activi-
ties, but believe the group should be reined in
and legitimized.





HANDLING ALIENS


Hi axelelelammeoyalham-mmat-lalenael mney mm-lil-lalMmal-hi.-mm ol-1-10
introduced to Eclipse Phase so far, gamemaster
may wish to introduce their own. This is per-
fectly acceptable, though we strongly recom-
aal-salemmdat-her-Jah’ar-)alemr-11m-1 0-10 [him el-m ele) aua-)V-re m=)
convincingly alien. Life forms that have evolved
in drastically different environmental circum-
stances from humans and that grew into intel-
ligence by a different path should seem, at best,
bizarre, unusual, and weird. There is no guar-
antee that a xenomorph’'s thought processes
fo) au natee(-\-mey mn dalial alate m-la-mlamr-laN Mauch avian (-lam ce)
transhuman ones or even that their emotional
responses (based on a completely different
biology—if they have emotions, that is) are in
the same ballpark. Communication is likely to be
Wel a¥-lit=aver-ver- fale maslevelaler=lec1e-laleliale-m-|a-m el a-le are


cally guaranteed. @


THE LT]


As noted under Extraterrestrial Intelligences (p. 352),
the ETT is the advanced alien civilization responsible
for the exsurgent virus (p. 362) and, by extension,
the corruption of the TITANs and the Fall.

No one, not even the Factors, has encountered a
member (if such exists) of the ETI civilization so far.
Since it is an intelligence far beyond transhumanity, it
likely won’t play much of a direct role within Eclipse
Phase, though those who learn the truth about the
exsurgent virus and the Fall may rightly fear the
future. No one can even imagine what might happen
next, however, or know for certain that the ETI has
not set more “traps” similar to their bracewell probes
or if they have other messengers or servants active
in the galaxy. With things such as the Pandora gates
at transhumanity’s disposal, it may just be a matter
of time before transhuman explorers run afoul some
other aspect of the ETT’s existence and activities.

It is important to keep the nature of the ETI in per-
spective. While transhumanity has managed what it
considers wonders with a small handful of resources
available from a few planets and other objects in a
bare handful of star systems, the ETI has had an entire
galaxy at its disposal for eons. Engineering projects on
a massive scale—Dyson spheres, Matrioshka brains,
Jupiter brains, stellar engines—are within its capabili-
ties. This ETI uses star clusters as transhumanity uses
fields or rich mineral veins. Given its potential, the
ETI likely exists primarily on the galactic rim, far
from the galactic center, where lower temperatures
and scarcer matter make for a good thermodynamic
environment. The powers in the deep cold dark on
the edge of the Milky Way have been self-aware since
before Earth was so much as a ripple in warming gas
around the not-yet-ignited Sun.





—
=
=e
=
==
—
[_
oe
[LJ
=
>
C5


OO
mah











SYNOPSIS


THE MESH


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE








Despite what those-in-the-know in the Eclipse
Phase universe may think, the ETI is not necessar-
ily hostile towards other races like transhumanity
(depending on its outlook; see The ETI Agenda,
p. 353), at least not in the way as transhumanity
would define animosity because of religious, ethnic,
racial, or cultural difference. Most likely the ETT is
simply indifferent, concerned with matters on scales
on which transhumanity does not even register. Or it
may think of transhumanity like a living body might
recognize an infection or parasite—something the
immune system will suppress and deal with.


EANUIMANS


Exhumans are a faction within Eclipse Phase that
seeks to transcend the transhuman and become post-
human. More to the point, exhumans seek to perfect
their physical and mental capabilities to extreme levels,
in search of some perfectionist ideal or to become
something higher-up on the evolutionary ladder.
Exactly what this is differs from exhuman to exhuman,
but there is generally some adherence to Nietzschean
philosophy and a goal to reach the pinnacle of the
food chain. Some exhumans have transformed them-
selves into what they consider to be an ideal predator
or a creature that is extra-adaptable and so best able
to survive. Others radically modify their own brains
in order to drastically surpass transhuman intelligence.
Most are singularity seekers, eager and willing to
follow the breadcrumbs left by the TITANSs or other
entities in the hope that they will find the means of
transcending transhuman limitations.

Due to the use of numerous extreme, experimental,
and dangerous self-modifications, some exhumans
have done permanent damage to their psyches, becom-
ing insane or perhaps just transferring their mode of
thinking into something that is no longer recognizable
as human. Some have also adopted an antagonistic
view of their former transhuman species, viewing it as
weak, decadent, and unworthy. This has spurred some
exhumans to actively attack and ravage transhuman
settlements and ships, though usually in isolated areas.

A few examples of exhumans are described below,
though gamemasters are encouraged to develop
their own.


NEURODES


Seeking to achieve a new level of super-intelligence
and consciousness, neurodes have abandoned the
typical transhuman sleeve in exchange for a multi-
pedal neuronal shell that is both body and brain at
the same time. The bulk of a neurode’s body mass
consists of amorphic clusters of neuronal and epithe-
lial cells, enclosed in a hard carapace shell with four
legs and two manipulatory digits. The cerebral mass
of neurode brains gives them impressive calculation
and other mental capabilities far exceeding that of a
normal transhuman. Neurodes typically defend them-
selves with swarms of teleoperated drones.


re CB Be Ee Ee ee
(sees
Ni Eo re ee De a
com


Skills: Fray 30, Investigation 80, Perception 90, others
as appropriate

Implants: Access Jacks, Carapace Armor, Circadian
Regulation, Direction Sense, Eidetic Memory,
Endocrine Control, Hyper Linguist, Math Boost,
Medichines, Multi-Tasking, Oracle, Skillware

Notes: Mental Disorder trait x 2


PREDATORS


Predators seek to transform themselves into an ulti-
mate top-of-the-food-chain evolutionary contender.
They pursue new avenues in genetic modification and
prototype implants, often using controversial methods
and technologies. The biochemical instabilities result-
ing from these untested modifications and altered
metabolisms negatively impacts their emotional and
mental stability. Pushing this even further, some preda-
tors undergo experimental psychosurgery to modify
their consciousnesses in order to increase cunning and
ruthlessness, a procedure that often has other negative
side effects. A few predators take their survival-of-the-
fittest ideology to an extreme, modifying their diges-
tive systems for a cannibalistic diet and relishing in the
slaughter and feasting on of transhumans.


ree Re Be ee Ee Ee ee
Ket
i Eo Ge ee ee
com oem


Skills: Blades 60, Fray 60, Free Fall 50, Freerunning 80,
Investigation 50, Perception 60, Unarmed Combat 70

Implants: Adrenal Boost, Carapace Armor (11/11),
Chameleon Skin, Cyberclaws, Drug Glands, Endo-
crine Control, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Smell,
Enhanced Vision, Grip Pads, Hardened Skeleton,
Medichines, Muscle Augmentation, Neurachem
(Rating 2), Oxygen Reserve, Poison Gland, Prehen-
sile Feet, Prehensile Tail, Respirocytes, Temperature
Tolerance, Toxin Filters, Vacuum Sealing, plus any
other mods the gamemaster feels appropriate

Notes: Mental Disorder trait x 2


THE ERSURGENT VIRUS


Only very few people (or entities) who survived the
diaspora from Earth know of the true reasons and the
catalyst that culminated in the Fall. The alien exsur-
gent virus—as those aware of its existence within
Firewall call it—is something beyond transhuman-
ity’s understanding. Set in place by the ETI to infect
emerging seed Als, it is far more complex than just a
computer virus.

Though some strains of the exsurgent virus have
been identified and various types of infected exsur-
gents have been encountered, it is widely assumed that
these are creations of the TITANs. Largely defeated
and eradicated from off-Earth transhuman networks
thanks to the efforts of the Prometheans, occasional


a


or | fd le





















breakouts of the exsurgent virus still occur, primarily
due to scavengers or others becoming infected when
messing with old relics from the Fall.


PLETHORA OF STRAINS


The exsurgent virus is unlike anything that trans-
humanity has ever encountered. While it bears
similarities to both computer and biological viruses in
regards to infection of hosts and propagation, it is not
bound by many limits of form or transmission vector.

The exsurgent virus is amazingly effective and infec-
tious. As an information virus, it is highly intelligent
and adaptive, able to mutate into new forms. Much like
certain viruses are able to cross species boundaries or
change their vector from contact to airborne, it is also a
self-morphing omnivirus, capable of altering itself and
its transmission vectors to bypass infection safeguards.
Like a retrovirus that incorporates genetic information
into the genome of the target cell to subvert the cell to
do its bidding, the exsurgent virus does the same but
on a more complex level. It is also known to rewrite a
host’s neural code in a similar manner, in effect restruc-
turing the target’s mind and personality.

While it began as a digital computer virus—the
manner in which it infected the TITANs—it has trans-
formed to be communicable via at least three other
forms: biological nanovirus, nanoplague, and basilisk
hack. Each is described below, along with rules for
infection and defense.


— i a


—











BIOLOGICAL NANOVIAUS


Exploiting the infected TITANs’ understanding of
Earth-based biology and their access to bio- and
nanotechnology, the exsurgent virus appeared in
several biological forms not long into the Fall. These
virulent strains infected biomorph transhumans and
sometimes other living creatures as well. The biologi-
cal nanobots spreading this strain act much like other
biological viruses, though they radically modify the
victim’s biological and mental states. Some versions
invade and restructure the target’s genetic code, trans-
forming them into the horrible abominations known
as exsurgents (p. 369). While first-hand reports relate
lurid tales of victims metamorphing into hostile
monsters, such reports are rare and considered unre-
liable due to the mental state of the witnesses (and
any recordings that can verify such claims have a
strange habit of disappearing). Other variants of this
strain are known only to alter the target’s neural code,
subverting them to the will of the virus (and often,
by extension, the TITANs) and affecting their mental
structure in order to give them psi ability.


BIOLOGICAL INFECTION


Biological versions are spread much like other patho-
gens. People usually become infected by proximity to
another infected entity. Vectors may be dermal (touch-
ing someone with bio-nanobots excreted through the
skin), inhalation (breathing exhaled bio-nanobots),


















SYNOPSIS


g=(


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


injection, or oral (see Application Methods, p. 317).
exsurgent bio-nanobots can live outside of a body
for extended periods, so infection is possible merely
by occupying the space where an infected victim was
hours or even days before.

If a biomorph only has a chance of exposure to the
virus (e.g., they walk through a room in which they
might have breathed in exhaled bio-nanobots), have
them make a MOX x 10 Test (use their Moxie stat,
not their current Moxie score). Failure means they
were exposed. In other circumstances, exposure may
be automatic, such as extended physical contact or
exchange of bodily fluids with an infected person.

A biomorph exposed to this infection must make
a DUR x 2 Test to determine if the infection takes
hold. Basic biomods and nanophages do not offer
any protection, though toxin filters (p. 305) and
medichines (p. 308) each give a +30 bonus (though it
is likely only a matter of time before a mutant exsur-
gent strain learns to bypass them). If the test fails, the
victim is infected. See the strain descriptions (p. 367)
for specific details.

Within 12 hours of infection, biomorphs become
contagious to others. (Note that for the Watts-
MacLeod strain, they only remain contagious for 12
hours after that.)


DIGITAL VIRUS


Digital strains are purely information- or code-
based versions of the virus. They resemble advanced
computer viruses, worms, and trojans. They spread
throughout the mesh, exploit holes, mimic protocols,
and bypass security measures just like a skilled hacker.

Digital versions of the exsurgent virus are treated
as intelligent programs, using the same rules as info-
morphs (p. 265), with the following stats:


COG el oye) INT REF SAV SOM WIL MOX
a
A
= 3) [eee =a


Skills: Hardware: Electronics 50, Infosec 70, Inter-
facing 60, Investigation 50, Perception 60, Program-
ming 50

Software: Exploit, Firewall, Sniffer, Spoof, Track, plus
any others the gamemaster considers appropriate


DIGITAL INFECTION


As a matter of course, this exsurgent virus will seek
to access any new systems it comes into contact with,
hacking in and copying a version of itself.


A AND INFOMORPH SUBVERSION


An exsurgent virus may take a Complex Action to ini-
tiate an “attack” against any other intelligent program
(AI, AGI, or infomorph) that is running on the same
system. If it encounters such programs as they are
accessing a system it is on, it will attempt to locate
and hack their home system where they are running
so as to attack them directly.


The attack is handled as an Opposed Test, each rolling
COG + INT. If the exsurgent virus wins, the target is
infected and will be corrupted by the virus in 10 Action
Turns, minus 1 turn per 10 full points of MoS. If the
target succeeded but rolled lower than the virus, they
are aware that they are slowly being taken over. This
immediately causes them 1d10 points of mental stress.
An infected program has only one option for defending
itself before the virus takes over—shutdown and reboot.
It takes the AI or infomorph 1 full Action Turn to shut
down. Restarting takes 3 full Action Turns (possibly
longer if the gamemaster so decides), upon which the AI
or infomorph must make another Opposed COG + INT
Test against the virus. If this test also fails, then the virus
has already embedded itself in the AI or infomorph’s
code and will continue its infection.

One the infection is complete, the AlI/infomorph
becomes an exsurgent NPC.


CUBERBRAIN HACKING


Exsurgent viruses that manage to infiltrate the cyber-
brains of pods and synthmorphs may also target the
digital egos within, using the same rules as given for
AI and infomorph subversion above. Alternately, the
virus may conduct a traditional brainhacking attack,
as noted on (p. 261), or unleash a basilisk hack.


NANOPLAGUE


While the abundance of nanotechnology has been a
blessing for transhumanity’s journey to the stars, it has
also been a curse. Via the TITANs and mesh-connected
nanofabrication machines, the exsurgent virus manu-
factured nanobot swarms equipped with variants of
the virus. These nanobot plagues are capable of target-
ing all types of morphs and sometimes other machin-
ery as well. Unlike the biological nanovirus, which uses
biological mechanisms to rewrite biological/neural
structures, these nanoplagues physically restructure
both people and things at the molecular level.


MANOPLAGUE INFECTION


Exsurgent nanoswarms follow all of the rules given
for nanoswarms on p. 328. Unlike transhuman
nanoswarms, though, exsurgent nanoplagues may
penetrate a biomorph internally, affecting the body
within as well as without.

Any morph that comes into contact with a nano-
plague is considered infected. The only defenses are
guardian nanobots and nanophages (which work the
same as guardian nanobots in this situation), though
these are less effective against exsurgent nanobots,
inflicting —2 damage to the swarm each Action
Turn. Some exsurgent nanoplagues have developed
countermeasures against such systems, inflicting
(1d10 + 2, round up) damage to such defenses each
Action Turn. Note that nanoplague-infected charac-
ters are not contagious themselves ... usually.

See the strain descriptions p. 367 for specific infec-
tion details.














BASILISK HACKS


Thanks to the vast databanks of knowledge the
TITANs had absorbed from transhumanity, the
exsurgent virus was able to thoroughly analyze the
biology and functioning of transhuman minds. In a
few short months of accessing all of the research at
their disposal, the exsurgent and TITAN intelligences
made several cognitive leaps in their understanding of
transhuman brain functions—breakthroughs that will
take transhumanity decades to reach. One of these
discoveries was a method of applying sensory input
as a weapon, exploiting weaknesses in the brain’s
neurocerebral wiring.

Known as “basilisk hacks,” these attacks take
advantage of the way biological transhuman brains
interpret and process sensory input in the cerebral
cortex. Just as epileptics are susceptible to visualiza-
tions that strobe at certain frequencies, basilisk hacks
employ special visual and auditory patterns that
trigger glitches in the brain’s neuronal wiring to inflict
nausea, vertigo, disorientation, and even seizures,
often mistaken as a stroke or cerebrovascular incident.
Some basilisk hacks go farther than simply causing
the brain to seize up and crash, however, enabling
a mechanism to rewrite the neural code in victims
who view or listen to the wrong thing. This unknown
reprogramming mechanism enables the virus to infect
even a biological brain with one of its strains. Similar
attacks are used against both synthmorphs and pods,
taking advantage of the methods in which cyberbrains
mimic biological minds with a virtual brain state, and
thus also manipulating them via the information
encoded in sensory input.

In a nutshell, basilisk hacks are a way of hacking
transhuman brains merely by feeding them a specific
sample of sensory input, usually images or sounds. The
widespread use of augmented reality makes deploy-
ment of such hacks an easy matter; the exsurgent virus
just hacks into the target’s ecto or mesh inserts and
engages the sensory feed. More traditional methods
may also be used, including standard interactive video,
holograms, audio, subsonics, or even VR.

Since so many records of the years surrounding
the Fall were lost, most people do not know if the
basilisk hack is anything other than a legend. Various
official groups know that this technology was, in fact,
used by the TITANs, but they keep this knowledge to
themselves, in large part to help reduce the number of
people attempting to duplicate it.


INCAPACITATING INPUTS

When a character experiences a basilisk hack, they
must make a COG + INT + SAV Test. If this test
fails, their brain is susceptible to the hack, and they
immediately suffer 1d10 mental stress. Additionally,
one of the following effects applies. The duration for
each effect listed below is 1 minute plus 1 additional
minute per 10 full points of MoE Each effect is also
numbered 1-10, in case the gamemaster wants to roll
1d10 and randomize the effects rather than choose:


a |











e (1) Cataplexy: The victim loses control of their
body and immediately collapses. For the duration
their body will be non-responsive but they will be
aware and capable of mental actions. Mesh actions
and implant controls are also disabled, however.

e (2) Catatonic Stupor: The character becomes
immobile and non-responsive. Though conscious,
they are mentally “not there”—the basilisk hack
has effectively crashed their brain functions. They
will do absolutely nothing for the duration and
will not respond even if moved or attacked.

e (3) Disorientation: The character becomes disori-
ented and severely confused. They are incapable
of making decisions, understanding communica-
tion, understanding what is going on around
them, or acting in any sort of determined way for
the duration.

e (4-5) Grand Mal Seizures: The subject immedi-
ately falls to the ground and begins convulsing,
suffering 1d10 damage. They may do nothing
else for the duration and will suffer an equal
duration period of confusion and weakness (—30
to all actions) afterwards.

e (6-7) Hallucinations: The character immediately
goes off on a mental trip, leaving them completely
disconnected from reality and their physical
body. For the duration, the character should only
respond to the hallucinated reality the gamemas-
ter describes to them or else the character should
be treated as an NPC, run by the gamemaster.

e (8) Impaired Cognition: The character’s mental
capabilities bottom out, turning them into a
disabled vegetable. COG, INT, SAV, and WIL all
drop to 1, and the character should act accord-
ingly to environmental stimull.

e (9) Nausea/Vertigo: The character is overcome
with head-spinning and vomiting and is effec-
tively incapacitated for the duration.

e (10) Sleep: The character passes out for the duration
and cannot be woken short of medical intervention.


In rare cases, a character may be able to “dodge”
a basilisk hack they know is coming, assuming they
have some sort of warning (such as their buddy falling
prey to it moments before). The character must of
course be aware of what basilisk hacks are to even
consider this idea. If they immediately attempt to
take action to block out the sensory input when it
strikes—closing their eyes, plugging their ears, turning
off their AR, etc.—allow them a REF x 3 Test to see if
they do so in time.


SENSORY REPROGRAMMING


In some cases, the exsurgent virus can actually repro-
gram the target’s mind via dedicated sensory input. This
is a trickier affair, however, requiring uninterrupted pro-
gramming time. As with incapacitating inputs, the target
character(s) experiencing the basilisk hack must make a
COG + INT + SAV Test. If this fails, they become cata-
tonic and paralyzed for a period of 10 minutes, minus








> GAME INFORMATION


365













SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


=
=
Pri
—
rr
3}
=o





GAME INFORMATION :





REFERENCE





1 minute per 10 full points of MoE. At the end of this
period, they are mentally reprogrammed and “infected”
with one of the strains of the exsurgent virus (see below).

If the character is somehow removed from exposure
to the basilisk hack through the actions of another
party before the full duration, the reprogramming
immediately fails. In this case, the victim still suffers
1d10 mental stress +1 per minute they were exposed,
and they remain mentally shaken, suffering a —30
modifier to all actions. This modifier reduces at the
rate of 10 per minute.


VOBM ATTACKS


Rather than completely reprogramming a victim,
some exsurgent attacks simply plant subconscious
commands in the target’s mind, similar to posthyp-
notic suggestions. Nicknamed “You gotta believe me”
attacks, YGBMs are a sort of remote digital brain-
washing attempt used to create sleeper terrorists and
unknowing collaborators, often by targeting them via
the mesh. Unlike the mind manipulation techniques of
psychosurgery (p. 229), YGBM attacks use shotgun
techniques to open the mind, utilizing some kind of
backdoor the exsurgents discovered in the transhu-
man brain, and altering the mind by brute force.

A character experiencing a YGBM basilisk hack
must make a COG + INT + SAV Test. If this fails, a
single suggestion is implanted in the character’s mind,
without their knowledge. This subliminal command
will be triggered at some later point, either at some
predesignated time or according to certain pre-set
conditions. Once triggered, the character will carry
out the action with all of the conviction that it is their
own idea. The implanted suggestion may be some-
thing as simple as “kill the Firewall agent” to some-
thing as complex as “manufacture an explosive device
and plant it in the cargo hold of any ship heading to
Mars, set to explode one day after they disembark.”


Since YGBM attacks are not intended to completely
convert the target, but instead to simply convert them
into a temporary tool or weapon, implanted com-
mands are not designed to last long. The duration
the suggestion will last equals 3 days +1 day per 10
points of MoF on the resistance test. If the command
has not been triggered by this point, it dissipates, and
the character is none the wiser.


RECORDING BASILISK HACKS


Enterprising characters may seek to record a basilisk
hack input for their own uses. While basilisk hacks may
be recorded like any other sensory input, keep in mind
that the exsurgents and TITANs likely take measures
to keep such tools out of the hands of transhumanity,
lest they construct some sort of defense. Basilisk hack
sources may be self-erasing or contain coding or coun-
termeasures that would hinder recording, such as white
noise to defeat audio recording or lens-blinding flashes
to defeat video recording. Conversely, basilisk hacks are
considered extremely dangerous by almost all factions of
transhumanity and universally feared. An individual or
group known to possess them is likely to be treated much
like a terrorist with a suitcase nuke. Though Firewall has
a standard interest in evaluating and enabling some sort
of defense against basilisk hacks, most Firewall person-
nel consider it foolish to handle such toys and would
rather destroy such recordings outright.


ENOURGENT STRAINS


Four variants of the exsurgent virus are described
here—gamemasters are encouraged to develop their
own to keep players on their toes.


HAUNTING VIRUS


This strain is the most insidious of the exsurgent
viruses. Over time, it rewrites the target’s personality
and motivations, slowly but surely subverting and











taking control of the victim’s mind. At first the charac-
ter is unlikely to even be aware of the infection, and as
it progresses the changes the virus makes to the target
will at first seem natural, as if some new aspect of their
personality was simply manifesting itself. As the effects
grow more pronounced, however, the victim becomes
aware that they are being methodically altered but is in
most cases unable to act against it. In the end, they are
completely transformed into a pawn of the ETI. Their
mind is no longer transhuman, but alien.

The exact rate of progression is up to the game-
master, though guidelines are provided below. Each
victim is affected differently, so the process may be
accelerated or slowed down as the gamemaster sees fit.


e Stage 1 (initial infection to 3 months): Upon

initial infection, the character suffers 1d10 mental
stress and gains the Psi trait (p. 147) at Level 1
(also meaning they pick up the Mental Disorder
trait, as noted on p. 150). They also gain one
free psi-chi sleight, chosen randomly or by the
gamemaster. If a player character has become
infected, they may still be played as normal (see
Roleplaying Exsurgents, p. 369) and may pur-
chase new psi-chi sleights with Rez Points. NPCs
acquire 1 new sleight per 2-4 weeks.
At this stage, the infection is usually hidden,
though the character will suffer from occasional
haunting effects (see below). As each week passes,
the character’s personality should shift a minute
amount, slowly becoming more callous and con-
niving and changing in other ways as well. If pos-
sible, the player should be kept in the dark about
what is happening, but the gamemaster should
provide them with roleplaying advice to reflect
their condition. Likewise, the discovery and
initial use of psi sleights should be played out,
providing some interesting roleplaying oppor-
tunities. Characters and players who know of
the exsurgent virus and Watts-MacLeod strains
should not know at this point which strain they
are infected with—make them sweat.

e Stage 2 (3 months to 6 months): The target
suffers another 1d10 + 2 (round up) mental
stress and acquires the Psi trait at Level 2 (also
picking up another disorder). Player characters
may still be played as normal and may purchase
psi-gamma slights with Rez Points. NPCs acquire
1 new sleight per 2-4 weeks.

Once three months have passed, the character
should be aware they are under the influence
of something, but this awareness likely comes
too late. Haunting effects (below) should occur
regularly. At this point a character is likely to
consider seeking help, actively encouraging
others to interfere, or offing themselves and
resorting to an uninfected backup. The infection
will actively block and hinder such thoughts
and actions, however. To actively overcome this
mental control, the character must succeed in a


OE









WIL Test. At the gamemaster’s discretion, failure
may result in 1d10 + 2 (round up) mental stress
as the character realizes they are no longer fully
in control of their own thoughts and actions.

e Stage 3 (6 months+): The victim suffers another
1d10 + 2 (round up) mental stress and acquires
the Psi trait at Level 3 (see below). The character
is now considered an exsurgent and becomes
an NPC. It may no longer be played as a player
character. The victim also gains a permanent
+5 bonus to COG and WIL and acquires 1 new
sleight every 1-2 months.


As noted above, characters infected with this strain
suffer from different haunting effects—changes to their
personality or mental state. A few ideas for haunting
effects are noted here, but gamemasters are encour-
aged to be creative when inventing their own to apply:


e Altered Perceptions: The victim’s perceptions are
changed in disturbing and unusual ways. They
may see things that aren’t there, feel a presence
behind or watching them, inexplicably smell
blood, hear voices, suffer synaesthesia, or sud-
denly perceive the people around them as nothing
but outlandish, blabbering sacks of meat.

¢ Behavioral Modification: Treat as behavioral
control or personality editing psychosurgery
(p. 229). This is typically applied to shape the
character closer to being a pawn of the ETI.

e Dream Manipulation: The character’s dreams
become lucid, weird, and surreal. They may find
themselves dreaming of life as an alien on some
exotic exoplanet, as a robotic probe soaring through
the vast emptiness of space, or fantasizing different
methods of inflicting mass destruction and death.

e Emotional Manipulation: Treat as emotional
control psychosurgery (p. 231).

e Inexplicable Urges: The character will be flushed
with strange alien urges and may sometimes find
themselves doing highly unusual things without
realizing at all they are doing it. These may include
taking devices apart to understand how they work,
testing the limits on programming a nanofabrica-
tor, cutting a living thing apart to see how it is
put together biologically, testing weapons, eating
things that are only barely edible, promiscuous
and unusual sexual activity, lying just to see what
they can get away with, and so on.


MINDSTERLER VIRUS


Very similar to the haunting virus, the mindstealer
strain is much quicker acting. Instead of slowly sub-
verting the target’s mind over the course of months,
the mindstealer virus rapidly recodes the victim’s brain
in a matter of minutes. This infection is much more
invasive and brute-force, often causing significant
side effects to the target’s mental state as a result. This
strain is only spread as a digital virus, nanoplague, or
basilisk hack (not as a biological nanovirus).








> GAME INFORMATION


367



















SYNOPSIS


=


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


Once the victim is infected, it takes the virus a
number of Action Turns equal to COG + INT + SAV
to completely take over their mind (20 Action Turns =
1 minute). During this time, the target is actively
aware that their mind is under attack and undergoing
massive changes against their will. This process is con-
fusing, frightening, and painful, inflicting a -30 modi-
fier to all of the character’s actions for the duration.
Many victims are reduced to whimpering, drooling, or
convulsing for the duration.

This mental transformation inflicts 2d10 mental
stress to the target. Once complete, the victim is an
exsurgent NPC, under the gamemaster’s control.


WATTS-MACLEOD VIRUS


The Watts-MacLeod strain is a strangely benevolent
version of the exsurgent virus, seeming to imbue
its victims with psi abilities without any of the other
transformative elements typical of other strains. Perhaps
created as an accidental mutation of the exsurgent virus,
there are many who wonder if the true detrimental
effects of this strain simply have yet to reveal themselves.

As noted in the Mind Hacks chapter section on Psi
(p. 220), characters infected with this strain gain the
Psi trait (p. 147) at either Level 1 or 2. If a character
is infected during game play, this trait must be pur-
chased with Rez Points (if the character does not have
any points currently available, they pay out of the
points they earn until the debt is paid off). All of the
other side effects of Watts-MacLeod infection (see Psi,
p. 220) also apply.

Though infection with this strain does provide some
benefits to the character, the gamemaster should make
sure to play up the creepy and unsettling nature of
this virus. The character should never be certain that
they haven’t in fact been subtly influenced by the virus
in ways they can’t immediately pinpoint—they should
always feel like the axe may fall at any moment.


AENOMORPH VIRUS


The xenomorph strain transforms the target’s body in
addition to their mind. It is only spread as a biologi-
cal nanovirus or nanoplague (not as a digital virus or
basilisk hack). Over time, the victim’s morph physi-
cally transmogrifies into some sort of alien life form.
Different variants of this strain produce different
xenomorphs. It is not known where these different
alien templates originated, meaning they may be copies
of (once) existing alien species or simply neogenetic
creatures created from scratch. The one trait they have
in common is that they are universally dangerous.
Some speculation in Firewall circles suggests that the
exsurgent virus may in fact have a “library” of crea-
ture types to deploy, under the assumption that at least
some will be more effective than others for exterminat-
ing whatever victim species they are fielded against.

This strain follows the same rules as the haunting
virus (above), but with the following changes. The
timeframe is typically much quicker, though the game-
master may adjust this as they see fit.


Stage 1: The effects from Stage 1 of the haunting
virus apply. Additionally, the character begins to suffer
minor physical changes that are definitely unusual but
are not impeding in any way and are easily hidden
from others. Example biomorph alterations might be:
unusual hair or fibrous growth, some skin discolor-
ation or translucence, severe rashes, dermal thicken-
ing, weakened or enhanced sensory organs, strong
body odor, hair loss, teeth gain or loss, vestigial tail or
other limb growth, minor dietary changes, and so on.
Synthmorphs might experience minor system glitches,
malfunctioning or improved components, and spots
of material stress or transfiguration. Gamemasters
are encouraged to be creative. This stage typically
lasts from initial infection to 1 week for biological
nanovirus strains, or from infection to just 1 hour for
nanoplague strains.

Stage 2: As with haunting virus Stage 2, plus the
character begins to seriously transmogrify in ways
that are difficult to hide from others, becoming more
and more monstrous as the stage progresses. Example
biomorph transformations include: growing scales
or feathers, partial modification of limb structure,
partial new limb growth, vestigial sensory organ
growth, sensory loss, extension of claws or spines,
severe dietary changes, etc. Synthmorphs might expe-
rience radical system and shape alterations, limited
or enhanced sensor functions, or even conversion of
their robotic shell to smart materials. These physical
changes weaken the victim, inflicting 1d10 physical
damage. This stage typically lasts 1 week for biological
nanovirus strains or just 1 hour for nanoplague strains.

Stage 3: As with haunting virus Stage 3, a character
reaching this stage becomes an NPC. Additionally,
the victim completely undergoes a transformation
into some sort of creature that is no longer even
remotely human. Example exsurgents of this nature


are detailed on p. 367.


USING THE EASURGENT VIRUS


The frightening thing about the exsurgent virus is
its adaptability. It was written by a near omnipotent
ETI with the intent of corrupting any alien seed Als
or similar singularities it encountered, and it is very
good at it. This means it has the capability to analyze,
understand, and mimic almost any alien digital pro-
tocols and communication methods it comes into
contact with, no matter how diverse the alien mindset
that constructed what it encounters. It then has a
cunning ability to circumvent any safeguards and
infect such systems. From there, it rapidly assimilates
any data it can about the target species/civilization
and does it best to mutate into other forms that can
attack this target from other vectors.

Given its constant morphing nature, the exsurgent
virus is likely to continue to mutate in new and inter-
esting ways. Some of these mutations may be effective,
many not. This does, however, afford the gamemaster
an opportunity to invent new variants of their own to
deploy against unsuspecting characters.








ROLEPLAYING EASURGENTS


The primary thing for gamemasters to keep in mind
when roleplaying entities that have been taken over by
the exsurgent virus is that exsurgents are following an
alien agenda. The specific goals and actions of each exsur-
gent may differ, but they are generally concerned with
two things: spreading the exsurgent virus and destroying
anything that isn’t affected. In some cases, this may mean
immediate and enraged hostile action against anything
non-exsurgent around them. In others, the exsurgent
approach is more methodical, hatching long-term plots
to infiltrate positions of power and authority, setting the
stage for acts of mass destruction, and so on. In other
words, they may be handled both as hostile monsters
or as nefarious long-term opponents that are subvert-
ing transhumanity from within or weaving complicated
plans to bring about devastation on a planetary scale.

If the gamemaster wishes, exsurgents may also
pursue other goals, tangential to the ones above. These
may range from accumulating knowledge and expertise
on how transhumanity functions as a species to forc-
ibly uploading mass numbers of minds or more esoteric
goals such as manufacturing a halfnium bomb or con-
verting the solar system’s mass to computronium. The
exsurgent virus is potent and intelligent, and while its
methods and goals may sometimes be opaque to trans-
humanity, it acts with direction and purpose. There
may also be occasions—likely due to the mutating and
morphing nature of the virus and the way in which
it transforms transhuman minds, perhaps not always
in the manner intended—where the exsurgent goals
become strange or simply horrific, such as running
experiments on transhuman responses to extreme con-
ditions or converting an entire colony to cannibalism.


EMOURGENT-INFECTED PCS


It is possible for player characters infected with some
strains of the exsurgent virus to continue on under
their own volition, even as the virus slowly consumes
them. This process is, quite naturally, horrifying in the
extreme, though there is little they can do about it.
Despite the best efforts of transhuman science, there
is no known method to save an infected person—the
virus is simply too potent and adaptive. As a result,
Firewall policy is to terminate the infected with
extreme prejudice. Most Firewall operatives are aware
of this, a fact that pushes some who become infected
to keep their status a secret from their comrades.
Both the haunting and xenomorph strains usually
transform a subject over time, meaning that the char-
acter may initially not be aware of the infection. This is
a prime opportunity for the gamemaster to mess with
the character ruthlessly, starting slowly with little haunt-
ing effects and building up as the infection progresses.
The character should slowly become aware that they
are under the influence of something—something intel-
ligent. Characters aware of the exsurgent virus and its
effects will likely pick up on this sooner, but the virus
may prevent them from doing anything about it. In
effect, the character becomes a prisoner within their own


body, a body they now share with a cold and malevolent
presence that is methodically taking them over. Such
characters may respond in a number of ways depending
on their personality, ranging from despair, withdrawal,
and suicidal tendencies to complete hysteria or calm
acceptance. Most importantly, however, their personality
should begin to change as the virus continues to trans-
form them. Players should be encouraged to take on new
demeanors and motivations, reflecting the alien compo-
nent of their changing personality, with some guidance
from the gamemaster. This presents some intriguing
roleplaying opportunities that the players will hopefully
embrace. If the gamemaster feels that the player is not
adequately representing the changing mindset, however,
the transformation can simply be accelerated and the
character converted into a gamemaster-operated NPC.


ENSURGENTS


A few examples of exsurgents created from transhu-
mans transformed by the xenomorph strain of the
virus are noted below. As always, gamemasters are
encouraged to develop their own, using these as guide-
lines. Unless otherwise noted, exsurgents use the stats
and skills of the transformed character. Each exsur-
gent detailed below first lists the aptitude modifiers
applied to transformed characters, then gives example
aptitude/skill ratings for NPC exsurgents.

Note that simply encountering transformed exsur-
gents is stressful to the minds of many transhumans.
At the gamemaster’s discretion, such encounters may
inflict 1d10 + 3 mental stress (p. 215).


CREEPERS (SYNTHMORPHS)


Perhaps the most disturbing exsurgent variant, so-
called creepers are cloud-like amorphous swarms of
small, black bubbles that are strangely fuzzily defined,
as if surrounded by some sort of visual refraction effect.
These clouds are theorized to in fact be autonomous
femtobot swarms—similar to nanobots, but affect-
ing matter on an even smaller scale, at the level of an
atomic nucleus. These black bubbles are capable of
coalescing into physical shapes in various states and
can penetrate just about any material or substance in
a matter of Action Turns. They may even penetrate
morphs, accessing and interfacing with neural and elec-
tronic systems directly. For rules purposes, treat creep-
ers the same as a self-replicating nanoswarm (p. 384).


colcnn Maelo) INT REF aac enna WIL Lng
410(30)| | — 15) | |— 45) | |4106B0)|

INIT @ SPD LUC TT DUR WT DR
| — JL — |


Mobility System: Walker/Microlight (4/16) (may
create other mobility systems with different rates)
Skills: Fray 40, Free Fall 50, Intimidation 60, Percep-

tion 50, Unarmed Combat (Grapple) 50 (60)
Notes: 360-Degree Vision, Chemical Sniffer, Electrical
Sense, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Vision, Fractal
Digits, Nanoscopic Vision, Radar, Radiation Sense,
Swarm Composition (but may make SOM Tests, and
plasma weapons do only 1d10 damage), T-ray Emitter


ow
co


—
=
=a
=
==
—
[_
oe
[LJ
=
<—c
C5














SYNOPSIS





WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS





ACTIONS AND COMBAT





MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION






REFERENCE











JELLIES (BlOMORPH)


These exsurgents resemble collections of massive,
slimy, mucus-filled bubbles. Their soft, amorphous
shape allows jellies to squeeze, slide, and slither
through even tiny spaces. Jellies are equipped with a
number of “limbs” that resemble long meaty tongues
studded with hard fleshy spikes that provide excel-
lent gripping ability. The lubricating coating that
envelopes jellies is both toxic and slightly corrosive,
melting plastics and biological materials after a half


eb}


hour of exposure. This substance may also be “spit
at targets.


COG ‘eere) INT REF yA SOM WIL MOX
+1060} -5010)| 4100] |— 015)| |— 05) a


|

ec ES ES

Movement Rate: 4/16

Skills: Exotic Ranged Attack (Spit) 40, Free Fall 50,
Perception 60, Unarmed Combat 40

Notes: Armor (12/12), Enhanced Smell, Spit Attack
(area effect), Tongue (DV 1d10 + 3, AP 0), Toxin
(Application: D, O; Onset Time: 1 Action Turn, Dura-
tion: 5 Action Turns, Effect: 1d10 + 2 (round up)
DV per Action Turn ). Due to their physical form,





jellies suffer the minimum amount of damage from
standard kinetic weapon and blade attacks.


SHIFTERS (SYNTHMORPH)


Shifters are synthmorphs whose material frames have
been converted to an exotic smart matter liquid metal.
This shapeshifting material can stabilize as a hardened
metallic shell or liquefy and reshape itself into other
forms. This allows the shifter to reflow its shell in a
matter of seconds, enabling it to visually mimic other
forms, including biomorphs (though they are easily
detectable as synthmorphs at other wavelengths or by
touch). Shifters may also reshape parts of their shell
into melee weapons such as knives or clubs.


ree Re eG Ne Ee ee
+520) | [+560 10 BO) [+5 20) eae
Di GS Ee Ty Ee BL

ee | Ss | 60 |


Mobility System: Walker (4/20)

Skills: Blades 60, Deception 55, Disguise 60, Fray 50,
Freerunning 55, Impersonation 60, Perception 50,
Unarmed Combat 50

Notes: Armor (13/13), Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced
Vision, Shape-Adjusting (Programmable Liquid
Metal Form)


SIMAPDERS (SYNTHMORPHS)


Snapper exsurgents are typically crafted from vehicles
or other large synthetic shells or by melding multiple
synthmorphs together. They take the form of an insec-
toid multi-segmented hexagonal tube with multiple
sets of limbs, three apiece, set radially 120 degrees
around the torso. These limbs are heavy, double-
jointed, and articulated with three joints. Each limb
ends in either a triad of manipulatory digits or a larger
pincer-like claw.





SOM WIL


Cre KN Be Ge MOX
+520) | [+560 10 80) [+5 20) eS
Ti Eo re Te i a
ES | =z


Mobility System: Walker (4/24) |

Skills: Climbing 45, Fray 40, Freerunning 40, Percep-
tion 40, Unarmed Combat (Pincers) 55 (65)

Notes: 360-Degree Vision, Armor (16/16), Enhanced
‘“Masion, Extra Limbs (9, 12, or 5 total), Lidar,
Magnetic System, Pincers (DV 2d10 + 3, AP -3),


Structural Enhancement


WHIPPERS (BIOMORPH)


These small barrel-shaped creatures have a mass
of small legs under their trunk that allows for fast
movement. At the top of their trunk is another mass
of 3-meter long, strong, whip-like tentacles. Some
of these tentacles feature gripping surfaces for grab-
bing and holding (both for tool use and mobility),
while others are sharp-edged and useful for slicing
through opponents.


ree Re ee ee Ee Ee ee
+5 20) } [+1080 | +520) | +10 BO} |— (15) | — |
i Eo re Te ie a
ae | ae


Movement Rate: 8/40

Skills: Climbing 40, Fray 50, Free Fall 40, Freerunning 50,
Infiltration 40, Perception 50, Unarmed Combat
(Tentacles) 45 (55)

Notes: Enhanced Vision, Tentacle Whip (DV 2d10 + 1,
AP -1)


WRAPPERS (BlOMORPH)


These exsurgents resemble large, thin, four-armed,








spiny starfish, capable of walking in a quadruped
manner, though they are seemingly better adapted for
microgravity. A large circular mouth resides in their
middle on one side and each arm ends in small sharp-
clawed digits, useful for climbing and tool use. Small
vent sacs allow for thrusting in microgravity and
sensory bands on the upper part of each arm provide
low-frequency hearing and infrared-equivalent
sensing. Their name comes from their tendency to
drop on opponents from above, wrapping themselves
around the head and arms.


COG ‘eere) INT REF SAV SOM WIL Wi Ke),4
+520) | [+5@20)| | +520) | +10 (30) |— (10) a
ss
| — ||, — | a Fae


Movement Rate: 4/16

Skills: Fray 40, Free Fall 50, Perception 50, Unarmed
Combat (Grapple) 50 (60)

Notes: Armor (8/8), Bite (DV 2d10 + 3, AP —5, must
grapple first), Chameleon Skin, Claws (DV 1d10
+ 2, AP —2), Enhanced Hearing, Infrared Sensing,
Vacuum Sealing








EHOURGENT Pol


In addition to psi-chi and psi-gamma (see Psi, p. 220),
exsurgents have access to a third level of psi ability
(the Psi trait at Level 3), known as psi-epsilon. Psi-
epsilon is theorized to allow a level of interaction with
the underlying physics of reality that is beyond the
comprehension of transhuman science. Though some
Firewall scientists have speculated about the manipu-
lation of dark energy or the Higgs field and Higgs
boson particles and similar exotic ideas, the truth is
that psi-epsilon represents an understanding of science
so far advanced and so alien that transhumanity can
only guess at its mechanics.


EMOURGENT SUNTHMORPHS AND PSI


Exsurgents in synthetic morphs that were transformed
via nanoplague may use psi, despite lacking a biologi-
cal brain. Through some unknown mechanism, the
infecting nanobots are able to simulate a biological
brain’s effects. This feature, however, also makes them
vulnerable to psi use by others.


EMSURGENT Pol STRAIN


Exsurgents with Level 3 psi (psi-epsilon) do not suffer
strain when using psi. Instead, they draw requisite
energy from the environment around them. In game
terms, this means that gamemasters do not need to
worry about rolling strain for exsurgent sleights. On a
cinematic level, it also allows the gamemaster to add cre-
ative environmental details to exsurgent psi use: sucking
the warmth out of the air, killing the lights, withering
plants, draining power from nearby electronics, killing
small creatures or insects, lowering air pressure, etc.


EAOURGENT Pol-GHMMA SLEIGHTS


These sleights are available to exsurgents with the
Level 2 Psi trait.


DECEREBRATION


Ramya © Active Complex
Touch Temp (Action Turns)


Wy) Psi Assault


This sleight temporarily “shorts out” a portion of the
subject’s brain stem. The victim’s cerebral functions
and motor activity become severely impaired; apply
a -30 modifier to all actions. If an Excellent Success
is scored, the target effectively loses all cerebral
functioning, including vision, hearing, other sensory
functions, and mesh use. Their muscles and limbs also
tense and become rigid, essentially paralyzing them in
what looks like an agonized state.


ONSLAUGHT


Ramya © Active Complex
Touch Temp (Action Turns)


0 Psi Assault


This offensive sleight floods the target’s mind with
sensory input and thought processes that are so alien


and disturbing that they inflict 1d10 + (WIL + 10,
round up) mental stress. Increase the stress by +5 if an
Excellent Success is scored.


SCENARIO


RSmivecwm © Active Complex
Touch Sustained


STemmey +2 Control


This sleight hijacks the target’s sensorium, replacing
it with a virtual scenario controlled by the exsurgent.
The effect is much like being jacked into a simulspace
scenario, albeit against the target’s will. While the
exsurgent cannot harm the target in the scenario, they
can learn something about the person’s behavioral
responses to certain situations. While under the influ-
ence of this sleight, the target is cut off from their
physical senses (-60 to any Perception Tests), but they
may flail about and otherwise respond physically to
events in the scenario, which may cause them to hurt
themselves and will make them seem crazy to onlook-
ers. Targets may attempt to ignore the scenario and
concentrate on the real world, but this requires a WIL
Test each Action Turn and they suffer a -30 modifier
from disorientation even if they succeed.


STRIP MEMORY / SKILL


Ramivecwm © Active Complex
Touch Temp (Hours)


“yy Psi Assault

Strip allows the exsurgent to suppress certain memo-
ries in the target’s mind. This can be used to block
memories of certain events or even the victim’s iden-
tity. The process is not exact, however, and so the
memories may not be fully suppressed and/or related
memories may also be blocked; the gamemaster
decides on the effect as determined by the MoS. Strip
can also be used to temporarily erase a specific skill
from the target’s mind, preventing them from using or
even defaulting to that ability while so affected.


ENOURGENT Pol-EPSILON SLEIGKTS


Psi-epsilon is available to exsurgents with the Psi trait
at Level 3. This subset of psi involves abilities that can
affect the underlying physical nature of the universe,
creating localized reality-altering effects. Psi manipu-
lation on this level is extremely dangerous and should
have the potential of disastrous consequences, given
that these manipulations violate fundamental laws of
nature and sometimes create paradoxes between the
forces that glue the universe together. Gamemasters
are also encouraged to treat critical failures as appro-
priately critical.

Given these factors, psi-epsilon should only be
accessible to powerful adversaries and used as a
gamemaster tool with extreme precaution. The exact
mechanics of psi-epsilon sleights are left wide open,
for whatever use the gamemaster can dream of. Their
intent is to be more cinematic than mechanical, so





—
=
=e
=
==
—
[_
oe
[LJ
=
>
C5


OO
~
ah














SYNOPSIS


ge


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


gamemasters should wing rules effects as needed. This
is an Open opportunity for the gamemaster to create
nightmarish monsters from beyond with frightening
reality-ripping and mind-scarring abilities. While
some example sleights are provided below, game-
masters are encouraged to modify their effects and to
create their own.

At the gamemaster’s discretion, simply observing
psi-epsilon sleights in action may inflict 1d10 + 2
mental stress on a character (p. 214).


ANTI-ELECTROMCS FIELD


All electronics within Close range of the exsurgent
mysteriously fail as if electrical power is simply
negated. This effectively disables synthmorphs and
pods and leaves other characters without access to
their devices or implants.


CASIMIR FORCE REPULSION


This sleight exploits the Casimir effect (an interaction
between the electromagnetic fields of different objects)
on a macro-scale, allowing the exsurgent to levitate
themself or other objects by creating repulsing fields.
This could also allow the exsurgent to push targets
away, pin them against walls, etc.


CRYORIMESIS


This sleight allows the exsurgent to drain all heat from
an area, down to absolute zero, effectively freezing
everything within range and inflicting cold damage on
unprotected characters.


DIFFUSION


This sleight diffuses light, laser, and particle beams,
effectively making them useless as weapons, or at least
impairing the DV they inflict.


RIMETIC FRICTION


The exsurgent uses this sleight to increase the fric-
tion applied to kinetic activities. This has a negligible
effect on most activities, but high-velocity projectiles
like firearms and railguns will be significantly slowed,
decreasing their DV by half or more.


MATTER TRANSFORMATION


This sleight alters the molecular bonds and atomic
components of a targeted material, causing it to
either weaken and deteriorate or transmutate into
some other physical substance. This can also be used
to alter the molecular state of a material, causing
gases to condense, solids to liquefy, etc. An exsurgent
could use this to weaken a door or other barrier,
condense a solid bridge out of liquid, petrify organic
materials, etc.


NEGATIVE REFRACTION


The exsurgent redirects electromagnetic waves with
this sleight, refracting them around their body, with
the same effect as the invisibility cloak (p. 316).


PUROKIMESIS


Similar to cryokinesis, this sleight enables the exsur-
gent to accelerate the molecules, increase friction, or
focus heat in a specific area, causing materials to ignite
or smolder.


THE FACTORS


The alien species known as the Factors are unlike
anything mankind has encountered so far (see First
Contact: The Factors, p. 40). Though they are aloof
and stand-offish, their willingness and sometimes
eagerness to deal with (parts of) transhumanity indi-
cate either a keen interest on their part in transhuman
affairs or some hidden ulterior agenda. The various
transhuman factions have been similarly wary and
cautious but interested. Despite numerous communi-
cations difficulties and failures, an uneasy relationship
has flowered over the past 8 years, facilitating some
trade and exchange of knowledge.


ORIGIN AND EVOLUTION


The Factors have remained notoriously tight-lipped
about their origins, history, and the location of their
homeworld. Though they have also paid visits to some
of transhumanity’s exoplanet colonies, no gatecrashing
expeditions have yet found any sign of Factor habitation
or passing elsewhere in the galaxy. Repeated inquiries
by transhuman mediators have been simply ignored or
answered in cryptic terms that have yet to be deciphered.

The Factor homeworld is in fact an Earth-like
planet with comparable atmospheric conditions and
a prevalent hydrosphere but with longer periods of
darkness (due to slower rotation of the planet and a
less-luminous orange giant). While adapted transhu-
mans could find their planet habitable, the abiogenesis
(the formation of life from self-replicating, but not-
living molecules) of life here took a different route
than life on Earth.

The Factors’ primordial ancestors began in their
planet’s early geological history as a type of pho-
tosynthesizer that ate carbon dioxide and water
and released oxygen, also obtaining energy from
inorganic chemicals like hydrogen sulfide. Long
conditions without direct light on their homeworld,
however, spurred the success of organisms that could
survive by acquiring energy in other ways. The next
evolutionary leap was to a stage similar to slime
molds, eating microorganisms from decaying matter.
As evolution progressed, they mutated further into a
cautious, predatory species that fed on larger, danger-
ous creatures. Rather than actively hunting such prey,
this species developed versatile methods of capturing
and immobilizing their competitors (comparable to
Earth’s funnel web or trapdoor spiders). Over time,
this method of trapping prey spurred basic (practical)
intelligence and provided them with the evolutionary
advantage that paved the way to sapience, driving
Factors to become the highest-developed organisms
on their planet and build a civilization.

















PS ——-
I es ——————





Like mankind, the Factors suffered through and
survived their own singularity event and encounter
with the exsurgent virus. Perhaps due to their cautious
and calculating nature—and their evolutionary expe-
rience in dealing with more powerful and dangerous
opponents—the Factors are resolutely determined not
to make any similar mistakes as a species.


RENOBIOLOGY


Since life on the Factors’ homeworld developed dif-
ferently than Earth and produced neither nucleic
acids nor amino acids, Factor metabolic processes

and “genetics” are very different from transhuman-
ity’s. While little is known about the exact physiology
of the Factors, due to the lack of captured or dead
specimens to investigate (so far, no hypercorps or fac-
tions have risked an interstellar incident by abducting
one to dissect ... so far) and their unwillingness to be
examined by transhumans, most common knowledge
about them is based on observational and forensics
research during their encounters with transhumanity.


INDIVIDUAL FACTORS


Individual Factors resemble non-translucent ambu-
latory amoeba, slime molds, or slugs. Though they
“stand” only 0.3 meters tall, their body diameter
ranges from 1.5 to 2 meters, they can be up to 2
meters long, and they can shape their body to change
these dimensions. Instead of walking, they crawl or
ooze from place to place by protruding finger-like
structures (so called pseudopodia) that attach to the
ground (or wall or ceiling) and which they use to pull




















and retract their rear forward (similar to cell migra-
tion). Due to their malleable shape they are not as
strongly affected by gravity as transhumans.

Most Factors that have been encountered are dull
ocher in color and are made from a gooey, gel-like
substance of unknown composition, though yellow
glistening patches (which are temporary organelles)
and bundles of fibers (some kind of muscular skel-
eton) often become visible when they move. While
all Factors are able to express versatile pseudopodia
to manipulate and operate devices (and even attack),
some subspecies possess, carry, or are able to develop
additional differentiated limbs, cilia, or organs with
specialized functions.


FACTOR COLONIES


Unlike transhumans, Factors rarely act individually—
in fact, individuality is a concept somewhat foreign
to Factors. Most Factors join together into a collec-
tive unit termed a colony. A typical Factor colony is
composed of hundreds or thousands of individual
Factors that literally physically join together into a
mass organism (resembling more a primordial soup
than a gargantuan Factor). Individual Factors are
indistinguishable from each other when merged into
the supra-structure of the colony, though individuals
can form and break apart to accomplish different
tasks. This colonial merging is mainly possible due
to the fact that Factors don’t possess differentiated
and specialized organs or cell types that need to be
segregated from each other, but instead use an open
system of local, temporary gradients for regulation.


—
=
=e
=
ce
om |
LL
Lud
=
<—c
Cc


o%)
oS)














SYNOPSIS


y(


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


Neurofilament connections effectively allow the
Factor colony to operate with a group mind-state,
with supercomputer potential. This also allows for the
easy transfer of knowledge and memories to all other
factors within a colony.

If dismembered, blown apart, or otherwise sepa-
rated, individual Factors in a colony can regenerate
and reconstitute at a rapid rate without loss of ability
or memory.

Factors reproduce when different members of the
colony produce gametes that fuse, grow into spore
stalks, and emit spores that later hatch and grow clones.


BIODIVERSITY AND SELF-DESIGN


Factors colonies are known for their high biodiversity,
featuring numerous sub-groups (phenotypes) that
each have unique traits (cilia, apocrine glands, cara-
pace-like outer membrane) that give them an ecologi-
cal advantage or a utilitarian aptitude for certain tasks.
These traits are not random evolutionary features
but are the result of intentional bioengineering. The
Factors have a strong grip on their own metabolisms
and genetic expressions and can draw on an array
of genetic building blocks and biotech techniques to
modify themselves rapidly and massively to adapt to
special conditions. Whether these modifications might
have a purpose beyond function, such as for reproduc-
tion or self-expression, is currently unknown.


METABOLISM


Factors ships and habitats have transhuman-friendly
atmospheres with a slightly higher content of carbon
dioxide and less nitrogen that mimics the conditions
on the Factors’ home planet. They don’t breathe
oxygen via lungs but absorb it via their outer “skin.”
Since they can also use oxygen from other sources
(minerals, liquids like water, and salts) to fuel their
aerobic energy production (i.e., respiration), they can
be considered functional anaerobes, meaning they can
survive in environments without atmosphere, though
they must usually supply themselves with food in
order to do so.

During the few ceremonial festivities to which Factors
were invited and actually attended, they consumed and
processed transhuman organic food by internalization.
On the first occasion, dishes and dinnerware were
absorbed as well due to misunderstanding, but were
excreted unharmed after the organic components the
factors could utilize had been broken down.

While Factors are omnivores similar to transhu-
mans, they prefer immobilized live prey, which they
enjoy absorbing internally and digesting, excreting
those parts that cannot be used to fuel their metabo-
ism. As such they can devour biomorphs and non-
metallic components of synthmorphs.


PERCEPTION


Factors don’t perceive the world as transhumans do.
They (usually) don’t possess visual or acoustic organs
to see or hear but have a number of sensory organs


that grant them a 360-degree awareness of their
surroundings and enable them to interact with their
environment similar to or in some cases even better
than transhumans. Their perception spectra includes
the infrared part of the electromagnetic spectrum,
magnetoception, a high-resolution chemical-gradient
based “sight,” and keen haptic perceptions (including
vibrations).


COMMUNICATION


Due to the lack of a vocal system, Factors use different
methods of signaling and communication. Factors in
physical contact exchange information by juxtacrine
cellular, neurofilament interfacing, or by merging for
information transfer. Over distance, Factors signal via
pheromonal communication using airborne scents or
chemical signals with different metabolic components.
Nicknamed “Factor dust,” this communication is effec-
tive even over great distances (up to 10 kilometers).
Factor dust does have an odor perceptible to transhu-
mans, however, that ranges from smelly to unbearable.
This dust is also toxic in high concentrations and some-
times used as an offensive or defensive mechanism.

To date, transhumans have failed to develop a device
that can analyze the Factors’ chemical effluvia and
translate it into something understandable, due to the
lack of a conceptual matrix (though certain “moods”
have been identified). Instead, all communication
between the Factors and transhumanity is mediated
through computer interfaces. Certain Factor phe-
notypes that deal with transhumanity have grown a
neurobiological interface (or organ) that enables them
to wirelessly mesh with transhuman computer systems.

Long-distance communication between Factors
and transhumanity is achieved by normal farcasting.
There are strong indications that Factors also take
advantage of quantum-entanglement communications,
enabling Factor colonies and ships to share knowl-
edge gained in different parts of the galaxy.


ENOSUCIOLOGY


Factors are cooperative beings that exist as a collec-
tive colonial organization. Though they can operate
individually from the colony, they tend to view them-
selves as part of that collective entity rather than
an individual being. Multiple colonies often work
together as a higher functional unit (a Jattice), like
some kind of superorganism. These lattices enable the
potential for collective networking and bioinforma-
tion exchange on a scope beyond anything of which
transhumanity is capable.

These colonies should not be considered the same
as the hive mind social hierarchies of insects. Factor
colonies do not feature the same division of labor
and instead function according to a consensus-based
sort of groupthink. Individual Factors have no sense
of personal gain or property and share equally with
other Factors and colonies.

Factors do not experience emotions in the same
manner that transhumans do, though being evolved








creatures they are driven by certain instincts. They
know and understand many of the same concepts
that transhumans do thanks to evolution, such as
competition/rivalry and altruism/cooperation. They
also enjoy an understanding of basic ideas of phi-
losophy such as aesthetics and metaphysics, though
their conception of such topics is likely to differ from
transhuman notions.


ART AND CULTURE


Due to their perceptual array, Factor “art” (creations
and expressions that are appealing or attractive to
their senses) is mostly chemical or tactile-based. It
can induce certain “mood” responses from individual
Factors and whole colonies, ranging from agitated
jittering and release of a Factor dust interpretable as
“Joy” to a tensing and solidifying of the whole body
(and no chemical expulsion) that seems to relate to
anger. Since they like and are susceptible to delicate
compositions of different chemicals, certain bouquets
and fragrances from liquids or volatiles such as wines
and perfumes are both appealing and repulsive to
Factors. The same is also true for the natural smells
of biomorphs, meaning that Factors may respond in
a more friendly or hostile manner depending on a
particular transhuman’s scent.

Factors do not comprehend most transhuman art,
as it is mostly visual or auditory based (e.g., music,
painting), though they do seem to have an apprecia-
tion for engineering, architecture, and some sculpture.
While they have expressed interest in digitalized media
out of a curiosity (or plan) to understand transhuman
mindsets, they lack the organs and mental structure to
access and comprehend it.


TECHNOLOGY


Though the Factors repeatedly express dismay at
transhumanity’s low level of technology, they have
failed so far to produce technology that is exception-
ally far in advance. Some believe that the Factors are
hiding their advanced technology in order to keep
transhumans from stealing or copying it, while others
think this may be a posture taken by the Factors to
facilitate bargaining. The Factors also claim that their
technology would not interest transhumans because
of their differences in physiology and mindset, and
what little technology they have displayed is certainly
specialized for Factor use (specialized neurofilament
links, chemical signaling and Factor dust interfaces,
etc.) and so unusable to most transhumans. The
Factors have traded some technology to transhumans,
at expensive cost, though the small sampling provided
so far seems to have originated from alien species with
physiologies more akin to transhumans.

It is interesting to note that scans of Factor ships
indicate their technology level, aside from the drives,
is not all that more advanced than transhumanity.
Also of note is that no two Factor ships have been
alike, spurring some to believe that the Factors are
in fact making use of ships acquired from other alien


species—perhaps abandoned derelicts that the Factors
recovered and restored. Once again this has led some
to believe that the Factors are using what to them are
primitive craft in order to hide their real technology,
while others are of the opinion that the Factors are
simply scavengers and opportunists, piggybacking on
the developments of other alien species.

One intruiging feature of Factor technology is that
they use no artificial intelligences. This stems from
their own singularity experience. Instead, Factors use
infomorph versions of themselves or the accumulated
processing power of their colony mind-states to
perform major computerized tasks.


FACTOR MOTIVATIONS


The driving reason behind why the Factors made
contact with transhumanity remains unclear and is
open to gamemaster interpretation. There is much
speculation among transhuman factions. Some think
the Factors are social creatures who are glad to
make contact with another post-singularity surviving
civilization. Others believe the Factors are mercenary
traders who somehow acquired FTL travel and use
it to their full advantage, fleecing various trading
partners who lack such capabilities (thus also explain-
ing why the Factors eschew the Pandora gates—they
disdain competition). Still others worry about secret,
hidden motivations.

Despite claiming to represent a number of alien
civilizations, the Factors have been extremely reluc-
tant to provide any other information on these other
species or even to say how many there are. More
recently, however, they have expressed a willingness
to transport a small number of transhumans to other
civilizations, though at great expense and with no
guarantee to their safety or ability to return.

So far, the Factors have made no mention of the
ETI or the exsurgent virus to transhumanity, though
they are aware of their existence. Instead they have
issued dire warning and admonitions regarding the
development of seed Als and use of the Pandora gates.
The Factors have, in fact, expressed an extreme reluc-
tance to deal with any transhuman factions that are
heavily invested in gatecrashing, such as Gatekeeper
Corp.


THE FACTORS I GAME


Factors should be rarely encountered in Eclipse Phase.
Most of their interactions with transhumanity occur
remotely and infrequently. It is uncommon for them to
risk direct interactions. It should be kept in mind that
Factors are cautious to the point of being conserva-
tive and view transhumanity as potentially hostile or
dangerous, so they are more likely to act with discre-
tion than boldness. Factors are also quite cunning,
having evolved from prey-capturing predators, and
still design complex machinations (traps in the meta-
phorical sense) to achieve their goals. In other words,
Factors out to achieve something are likely to hatch an
elaborate plot to get it and are not against recruiting





S%)
Ol


—
=
=a
=
==
—
[LL
—
Ll
=
<—c
5











WELCOME TO FIREWALL


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


ve | Hy
] j |
; ; Lin i | /
j mela ty !
| : |
' | | an |
We | |
_ | j
[os oe | | 5 ; '
— i ’ i | t \
mm ; }
> Aa i} b }
i ¢ Ht |
y hy a | { } eh Ok
| ee Bt
Meals ile ha


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION |








transhumans. Also, drawing on their abilities to self-


modify themselves and technology developed on their
own or picked up at other places in the universe, they
can adapt to new situations very quickly.


ALIEN MINDSET


Factors don’t possess Lucidity stats and cannot be
driven to madness like transhumans.

Affecting Factors with psi is very difficult, as noted
on p. 222. As of yet, Factors have not exhibited any
psi abilities of their own.


FACTOR COMBAT


Factors usually avoid direct combat but can defend
themselves if they have to. They are only likely to act
aggressively in situations where they have surprise,
environmental or technological advantages, and/or
superior numbers. Due to their cooperativism, Factors
are rarely encountered alone, working en masse to
eliminate potential threats.

Immunity to Kinetic Damage: Due to their gooey
composition and non-differentiated physiology,
kinetic weapons (firearms, railguns) are not very
damaging to Factors. Most such projectiles pass
through their gelatinous bodies, inflicting minor
damage via hydrostatic shock. The holes left by
such weapons quickly close in a matter of seconds.






Likewise, cuts left by blades rapidly seal. In game
terms, both such weapons inflict the minimum
amount of damage possible.

Regeneration: Even if damaged, Factors regenerate
very quickly. They heal SOM + 10 (round up) damage
every Action Turn. Wounds may not be healed this
way, however.


FACTOR COMPUTERS


Due to using completely alien protocols and system
designs, Factor computers are essentially impossible
to hack. They do, however, employ some devices that
emulate transhuman computer systems for communi-
cation purposes, and these may be hacked as normal.


FACTOR DUST TORI


As noted above, Factors can deploy a type of chemical
Factor dust that is toxic to transhumans. Treat this as
an area effect (cone) attack.

Type: Bio

Application: Inh

Onset Time: 1 Action Turn

Duration: 10 minutes (5 with medichines)

Effect: Severe coughing and respiratory distress,
1d10 damage per Action Turn for 5 Action Turns
(or ongoing with continuous exposure), —20 to all
actions for 2 hours. Medichines reduce damage by
half and modifier duration to 15 minutes.


MELDING


Individual Factors may merge together to form larger
units, much like masses of Factors form colonies. In
game terms, use the highest stat possessed by the
melded Factors, +2 for each additional Factor up to a
maximum of +10. Durability (and Wound Thresholds)
are added together.


FACTOR PHENOTYPES


A few examples of the different Factor phenotypes are
described below.


AMBASSADORS


The ambassador Factor phenotypes are the ones who
most commonly handle direct interactions with trans-
humanity. Most likely to put transhumans at ease,
these Factors feature a section of sensor nodules that
loosely approximate a “face.”


20 10 20


10 15 15 20 —

ane eer | el ce 30

Movement Rate: 4/16

Skills: Deception 70, Exotic Ranged Attack: Factor
Dust 45, Fray 25, Free Fall 40, Hardware: Elec-
tronics 35, Infosec 35, Intimidation 50, Kinesics 40,
Perception 50, Persuasion 60, Protocol 50, Research
35, Unarmed Combat 30

Notes: Access Jacks, Chameleon Skin, Grip Pads,
Infrared Sensing, Magnetoception, Poison Gland
(Factor Dust Toxin)














GUARDIANS


Guardian Factors serve as bodyguards for ambassadors
or other Factors whenever they leave a Factor ship.


ree Re Be ee Ee Ee ee
2
i ee Te i By
2 | ea


Movement Rate: 4/20

Skills: Climbing 40, Exotic Ranged Attack: Factor
Dust 65, Fray 50, Free Fall 40, Freerunning 40, Infil-
tration 40, Intimidation 50, Kinesics 20, Perception
50, Profession: Security Procedures 50, Unarmed
Combat (Tentacles) 50 (60)

Notes: Chameleon Skin, Eelware, Electrical Sense,
Grip Pads, Infrared Sensing, Magnetoception,
Poison Gland (Factor Dust Toxin), Tentacle Whip
(DV 2d10 + 1, AP —-1)


THE TRTOM!


Little is known about the alien race known as the
Iktomi except for the ancient ruins they left behind
on Echo V (p. 109). No Iktomi specimens have been
found so far, though certain architectural remains
suggest a predilection for web-like structures. This
has been bolstered by certain other features and relics
which suggest these aliens had a segmented, multi-


legged, arthropod-type form—thus their given name,


after a Native American spider god.


ee,





What is clear is that the Iktomi suffered through
some sort of cataclysmic event that wiped out their
civilization. The nature of this event has yet to be
determined, but it raises concerns for many research-
ers. Having suffered through its own near-apocalypse,
it is not comforting for transhumanity to find evi-
dence that other alien species did not.

Though the Iktomi are likely long extinct, the rem-
nants of their civilizations presents a plot hook for
gamemasters to use for building scenarios. Perhaps
evidence is uncovered of Iktomi settlements in other
star systems, and the characters are sent to investigate
or a relic is unearthed that suggests the Iktomi fell
prey to some danger that now threaten transhumanity.


THE PANDORA GATES


The five known Pandora gates (see Opening Pandora’s
Gate, p. 46) all look and operate in a similar fashion,
though they vary wildly in terms of size, shape, and
available destinations. The gates are built from some
sort of stable exotic matter whose full atomic struc-
ture scientists haven’t come close to cracking. To touch
and sight, however, the gates appear to be constructed
from a timeless-seeming polished black metal with no
signs of aging or wear and tear. Something about the
gates’ physical composition makes them difficult to
look at, as if the viewer cannot quite focus on their
outlines. Some onlookers have reported feelings of














SYNOPSIS


ge


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


vertigo and nausea, while others have insisted that the
gate outlines move on the edges of their visions, as if
the lines are reflowing or the edges are vibrating at
high frequencies. Due to this disturbing feature, most
gate sites keep the actual gate structures covered.

Structurally, the gates themselves are partially
enclosed by an irregular spherical cage composed of
black arms that are bent and angled in unusual ways
and sometimes interlocking. When new wormhole
location is programmed into the gate, these arms
physically change shape, move, and reflow around the
spherical gate area (suggesting they are made of some
sort of programmable matter). The openings between
arms are sometimes only large enough for a transhu-
man to enter, while others are large enough to allow
a freight train of supplies to pass through. In many
cases, large vehicles or equipment must be dismantled,
carried through, and reassembled on the other side. It
is suspected that the gate size could be programmable,
but so far efforts to do so have failed.

All known gates within the solar system are located
on the surface of naturally occurring astronomical
bodies, be that a planet, moon, asteroid, or so on.
None have yet been found without such a land-based
connection (e.g., floating in space or in the upper
atmosphere of a gas giant), though such gates have
been found in other star systems. It is speculated that
gates could be physically moved, but no one is willing
to risk such an endeavor given the lesson learned
when the Go-nin Group messed too heavily with the
Discord Gate’s controls (see Eris, p. 109).

The arms comprising each gate’s spherical cage have
an abnormal-looking organic-seeming growth on their
exterior surface in some areas, patterned in entranc-
ing twists, curves, and whorls that in fact adhere to
perfect mathematical formulas. It took some time for
scientists to discover that this growth was in fact the
gate’s control systems, or so-called “black box.” The
interface developed to interact with this system is what
allows gate controllers to manipulate gate functions.


THE WORMHOLE


When the gates themselves are open, a sphere appears
within the central area that is not so much black as
pure nothingness. This sphere of darkness projects an
aura of charged energy, and in fact ripples of green
arc lightning cascade across its surface. Anyone or
anything entering that sphere comes out the other side
of the wormhole, through a similar gate, seemingly
instantaneously. An unknown force field effect seems
to prevent the atmospheres from the two connected
gates from interacting.

Exactly how this wormhole is created is something
that remains outside of transhumanity’s comprehension.
The generally accepted theory is that each gate acts
as an anchor, allowing the fabric of space-time to be
folded so that two such anchored places can be brought
together, ripping a hole open between them so that a
person can simply step through. It is unclear whether or
not these wormholes are all pre-existing, created when


the gate was first established, or whether each worm-
hole is manufactured whenever the gate is activated.
Other more radical theories on how the gates func-
tion exist, though these are usually discounted as far
less likely. One such theory suggests that the wormholes
created are actually only zero-width Planck-scale con-
nections across space-time and that no matter is actu-
ally transferred—only information. Instead, this theory
suggests that anyone or anything entering the wormhole
is in fact instantaneously scanned and disassembled
and then their informational blueprint is transmitted
as information across space to the other gate, which
immediately reassembles an exact copy using some sort
of powerfully advanced nano- or femtotechnology. Very
little evidence supports this theory, however, and the dis-
turbing implications it represents raises fierce opposition.


UPERATIONS


Only a few people know that the Prometheans played a
key role in developing the interface for the gate control
systems, achieving breakthroughs in understanding that
transhumanity was incapable of achieving on its own.
Regardless of their help, however, the gate controls
have proven difficult, complex, and dangerous to use.
Through trial and error—and numerous horrible acci-
dents—the procedures for gate operation have become
somewhat normalized and standardized, though unex-
pected complications are par for the course.

Each gate can be programmed to open to numerous
extrasolar locations. In fact, each gate seems to have
a pre-programmed “library” of destinations. New
gate connections can be “dialed up” from this built-in
list, though there is nothing that indicates what the
far side of the gate will be like. Old gate connections
are closed when a new one is dialed up. Extrasolar
gate locations have ranged from habitable planets
and moons to deep space to truly deadly environ-
ments such as the crushing gravities and poisonous
atmospheres of gas giants and the coronas of stars.
Researchers have attempted to distill some sort of rec-
ognizable pattern by the manner in which locations
are listed and categorized, to no avail. Complicating
matters, there is some evidence that suggests that the
destination libraries sometimes change. More than
once operators have been unable to recall the codes
for previously accessed destinations, leading to the
loss of several gatecrashing teams and colonies.

Entering a gate is like walking through a door,
though it’s impossible to see anything beyond the
gate’s surface. One moment you’re entering the black
sphere at your starting location and instantaneously
you’re exiting the sphere at your destination location.
The true nature of the black sphere at the center of
each gate is wildly speculated upon, and almost every
gatecrasher describes a different textual experience.


UATECRASHING


The various hypercorps and factions in control of a
Pandora gate engage in active exploration of extrasolar
systems—an activity termed gatecrashing. The interests








and procedures vary, but the Gatekeeper Corporation
(and to a lesser extent TerraGenesis and Pathfinder)
both recruit heavily for expedition personnel. Given
the high casualty and death rates involved, finding
qualified personnel can be difficult. There are more
than enough infugees, poor, desperate, or thrill-seeking
individuals willing to risk their lives if give the oppor-
tunity, however, no matter what their motivations.
Gatekeeper operates a lottery system, whereby willing
adventurers can sign up in the hope of their name being
pulled to be sent on an expedition to a foreign point in
space. Such gatecrashers must sign away all rights to
any discoveries they may make to Gatekeeper, however,
though the corp provides not insignificant rewards for
certain discoveries, such as key resources, alien artifacts,
or new life. One potent prize has yet to be claimed:
finding a living, sapient alien life form.

In contrast, the Love and Rage anarchist collective
operating the Fissure Gate on Uranus makes the gate
available to anyone who schedules time to use it, assum-
ing their Rep is good and they aren’t acting with com-
mercial interests in mind. Any discoveries made via the
Fissure Gate must be openly shared. The drawback to
using the Fissure Gate is that the anarchists’ resources
are limited. Gatecrashing operations are handled in a
DIY manner, meaning that the operators may not be
able to provide the support that certain expeditions need.

Resourceful parties may also rent gate time via
Gatekeeper or one of the other hypercorp-controlled
gates, though this tends to cost a small fortune. The
more a group is willing to pay, however, the more
time and support they will get.

When establishing an opening to a new location,
several precautionary measures are taken. First, the
gate area itself is evacuated and cordoned off with
a defensive security perimeter, just in case anything
hostile comes through. Then drones are moved in to
push a micro fiberoptic camera through the gate to
view what is on the other side. This is followed by a
larger sensor package, evaluating environmental condi-
tions. If the environment is not hostile, a tethered drone
is then sent through to explore the far gate environs,
trailing a hardwired connection back through the gate.

For gatecrashing expeditions, these procedures are
often rushed—to the hypercorps operating the gate,
time is valuable. Each second wasted on a gatecrash-
ing expedition is one less second they can use estab-
lishing a new colony or exploiting a new world of its
resources. Indeed, it is common for a connection to be
closed when a gatecrashing expedition is sent through,
to be dialed up at a later scheduled time for retrieval,
so as not to waste gate operations on an idle connec-
tion. Many a gatecrashing team has failed to check-in
at their appointed pickup time.

Most of the gate-controlling entities have estab-
lished a system and infrastructure for making regular
connections to extrasolar colonies and ferrying
machinery and supplies through. Often this is handled
by establishing very short connections, just enough
time for a few people to transfer back and forth and/


or to send a trainload of supplies through via tracks
that run right up to the gate.


ANOMALIES


Unfortunately for many unlucky gatecrashers, gate
transfers have proven to be both unstable and glitchy.
Sometimes gates open to locations different from
what is expected—and such new destinations are
often hostile environments. Numerous personnel have
entered one side of a gate only to never appear on the
other side, despite those before and after them trans-
ferring through fine. On several occasions, wormhole
connections have crashed mid-operation, sometimes
as someone was stepping through, leaving them liter-
ally split in two on different worlds. In other instances,
gate transfers have suffered horrible malfunctions,
resulting in gatecrashers coming through the other
side literally turned inside out, melded with their
equipment, or pulped as if by massive gravitational
forces. Some expeditions report that stepping through
a gate has interfered with their equipment, disabling
it or creating other problems. A few gatecrashers have
also reported losing memories after a gate transfer.
Most of these problems have been chalked up to dif-
ficult controls and an imperfect understanding of gate
functions, but some conspiracy theorists suggest that
outside forces may be influencing gate operations.

While the experience of passing through is instan-
taneous from an outside observer’s perspective, many
gatecrashers report a subjective time lag, where it feels
as though minutes, days, or even weeks or months pass
before they exit. Reports have varied from experienc-
ing this period as a calm, meditative state to spooky
accounts of being lost in blackness and surrounded by
unseen whispering entities or more hellish experiences
of encountering monstrous presences. Though rare,
some have passed through only to collapse in a gibber-
ing heap, their sanity ripped away. A few report feeling
that they have carried a presence with them ever since ...

While the gamemaster can make use of any of these
anomalies, they are also encouraged to use their imagi-
nation to generate truly creepy and strange experiences.
At the same time, gamemasters shouldn’t make such
experiences so prevalent that the players resist entering
any gates or the novelty of such events runs dry.


PROJECT OZMA


The origins of Project Ozma date to the first modern
SETI (Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence) experi-
ments in the mid-20" century. That experiment—also
named Project Ozma—grew into a larger, interna-
tional concerted effort to try and locate and identify
ETIs; a myriad of projects blossomed during this time
period, all falling under the general SETI nomencla-
ture. While initially government funded, by the late
20" century and early 21“ century the work was pri-
marily funded by private sources.

The first hypercorps to expand into space swallowed
SETI whole, revitalizing and refocusing the decades-old





o%)
co


—
=
=a
=
==
—
[LL
—
Ll
=
<—c
5














380


programs with newly emergent technologies, each in
divergent areas to achieve a particular hypercorp’s
objectives. After all, if the bean counters were going to
authorize the spending of billions to expand markets
into space, they wanted assurances that no little green
monsters were waiting to destroy future revenue streams.
As with other organizations that survived the Fall,
the broad distribution of SETI projects between
multiple hypercorps guaranteed that personnel, tech-
nologies, and processes would survive, even if a given
hypercorp did not. As the Planetary Consortium rose
in power, future-minded individuals in influential posi-
tions within the new order ensured that these divergent
projects were once again swallowed and put to work.
During this transitional period, however, knowl-
edge of the exsurgent virus’s existence emerged. All of
the various SETI projects were retasked as a unified
agency and renamed Project Ozma. While the virus’s
origins remained a mystery at the time, far too many
of the movers and shakers of the Consortium were
convinced that the exsurgent virus represented first
contact. Project Ozma altered its focus from search-
ing for ETIs, transforming into a ready-response
agency to deal with first contact. As the true threat
of the exsurgent virus became known, Project Ozma
was rapidly elevated in scope and oversight author-
ity, absorbing numerous smaller agencies in the
process. While the nominal concepts of a SETI project
remained in public view, the completely transformed
Project Ozma vanished from sight, turned into a


PROJECT OZMA RUMORS


Whether true or not, gamemasters can use the
ike) Koy VAVitale mauiaate) acon al-1)olme-l ile) au nage) (-(aq un Oy4pal- miele
their campaign.


Project Ozma transcends even the Planetary
(Golatroladielsamw-leisare)aiayame) el-1e-1d [ale m-\e- B10) 0) ¢-b
ofo)V{=1aalaal=yauesl isle [=)are’melalel-lamaal-mella-veadle)ameyi
the inner system’s inner circle of elites.

Project Ozma dealt with the Factors first, be-
fore their presence was made known to the
ig-\meoy mm de-laljalelaat-laliayA

ge) (-\el OYA gat-Mat-her-) olde la-tom- MM INVom g-lake) an rele
their own experimental purposes.

Project Ozma is still in communication with
elarelelaauviela diate mie) andal-m BE PAUN

a ge)(=\e  @y-4an- a al-\et- me O\-1 PAN | ave(=) aud alla ee)aace) p
mage) {=e Oya nt- am ol=laliaremual-mlaie-1eel (ed (elemelim --lauer
Project Ozma has their own secret

Pandora gate.

Project Ozma’s secret headquarters is on Earth.


=e) (-\el a © 4 pat-We-le[-1ai cm al-\om=y.<allelic-te mile [armei
exsurgent infection.


Project Ozma has their own cadre of psi-
of-} oF- 1) (=m VAAL


144 >
a


——4 —s F








highly classified black-budget operation, with very
few even in the Planetary Consortium aware of its
presence or influence.

Project Ozma now operates as the Planetary
Consortium’s high-level threat assessment and
response organization with immense power and
authority as well as almost unlimited funding.
Primarily focused on extraterrestrials, in reality
Project Ozma is tasked with any potent threat to the
Planetary Consortium or its interests (which includes
secret threat groups, such as Firewall).


METHODS


Project Ozma’s internal structure is much different from
Firewall’s, being organized more like a traditional black
ops spy agency bureaucracy. While their field opera-
tions are sometimes similar in the deployment of teams
to assess, contain, or erase threats, they also have the
resources and personnel to conduct more long-term and
extensive operations. It is likely that Project Ozma oper-
ates behind numerous front groups, from legitimate-
seeming hypercorps to criminal syndicates, and that they
have influence within many others. Given their connec-
tions and reach, Project Ozma is far more capable of
pulling strings behind the scenes to get what they want,
especially in the inner system. When circumstances call
for it, they are more likely to pull out the big guns than
Firewall is, using their resources to call up communica-
tion blackouts, memetic propaganda campaigns, and
force sufficient to wipe out entire habitats.

Gamemasters should treat Project Ozma as the
ultimate Men-in-Black style government operation.
They are cunning, ruthless, manipulative, and capable
of hatching extensive long-term plots. Even in an age
of omnipresent surveillance, they have the means to
operate with complete secrecy and deniability. They
also have access to cutting-edge science and informa-
tion that is classified beyond top secret. While the
organization’s primary motivation is the protection
of the Planetary Consortium and inner system, they
undoubtedly have other hidden agendas that groups
like Firewall can only guess at.


PROJECT OZMA AND FIREWALL


Though Project Ozma and Firewall often see eye-to-
eye concerning the nature of various threats, they are
more often at odds: wary adversaries, acknowledging
the prowess of the other, but never letting down their
guard. This “at odds” mentality does not stem so
much from the methods used (though most Firewall
consider Project Ozma personnel to be explosive-
happy puppets that can’t think their way out of a
skin sack) as from conflicting agendas. Project Ozma
does not trust an organization as powerful as Firewall
because it does not have a rigid-enough hierarchy and
is outside of any known authority’s control (namely
themselves). Conversely, Firewall doesn’t trust Project
Ozma as they are too close to the powerful inner
system elites and their opposition to x-risks is a more
incidental side effect of more self-serving goals.











PROMETHENNS


The Prometheans were the first actual seed Als
created by transhumanity (by the Singularity
Foundation) before the Fall. Specifically developed
as “friendly” Als, the Prometheans are programmed
to consider themselves part of the transhuman
family and to act in transhumanity’s best interests.
They played a key role during the Fall, mitigat-
ing the damage inflicted by the TITANs and even
managing to counteract the exsurgent virus to a
large degree. During these trying times, numerous
Prometheans were destroyed by the TITANSs or
infected and subsumed by the exsurgent virus. In
the aftermath, these seed Als participated in the
formation of Firewall and continue to back the
organization behind the scenes.

Wary of falling prey to the exsurgent virus,
most Prometheans carefully secure themselves
in well-defended and isolated systems. They are
also cautious in their own self-development, not
wanting to become victims of their own rise to
super-intelligence. Fearing a potential backlash by
a paranoid transhumanity should their existence
become known, they hide their activities behind
multiple layers of secrecy. Even within the ranks of
Firewall their existence and support remain a closely
guarded secret.

Each Promethean is individually distinct with its
own personality, motivations, and goals. Though they
generally work together and support each other, they
have been known to have differences of opinion and
even to sometimes take action against each other. As
extremely potent intelligences, they should also be
treated as distinctly non-human. Even though their
original templates were based on human mindsets,
they have evolved and grown in ways that can only
be described as posthuman.

Gamemasters are encouraged to keep Promethean
involvement with player characters to a minimum,
though they may occasionally be useful as an ace in
the hole for Firewall. Their existence and involve-
ment can in fact be the basis for an entire adven-
ture, perhaps leading sentinel characters to wonder
exactly who they are working for. Though, as seed
Als, they cannot download their full minds into a
transhuman morph, they are capable of making
severely dumbed-down delta forks that they may
sleeve into physical forms. Within the mesh, of
course, Prometheans are nearly unstoppable adver-


SE ee ee ee | ee


saries, able to rip into secure networks with ease, __


though they prefer methods of covert infiltration
rather than direct subversion.









THE TITANS AND THEIR LEGACY


As noted in see Secrets That Matter (p. 352), the
TITANSs are not quite the bogeyman that they have
been made out to be in the wake of the Fall. However,
there is no saying how the TITANs would have turned
out had they not run afoul of the exsurgent virus.
Designed as an intelligent netwar system and emerging
to their full capabilities during the conflicts of the Fall,
the TITANs have imperatives for self-improvement,
self-protection, and overcoming opposition hardwired
into their programming. Unlike the Prometheans, they
were not designed to consider themselves transhuman
and to work in the interests of all of transhumanity,
but were programmed with factionalism from the
start. They also were not socialized with transhuman
mindsets and values as the Prometheans and most
AGIs were, meaning that aside from their programmed
military and defense directives they have adapted most


of their own self-interests. Given this and their recur- ~~


sively improved intelligence capabilities, it is likely
that the TITANSs are far removed from transhuman
interests and modes of thinking. It’s impossible to say
how they would have interacted with transhumanity
if history had played out differently, but it is unlikely
that they would have considered themselves part of
the transhuman family or even seen fit to remain on
friendly/supportive terms with transhumanity.

Though the TITANs are believed to have left Earth
at the end of the Fall, no one is quite sure exactly what
happened or why. It is known that the onslaught of
TITAN mesh attacks suddenly broke off in the wake of
transhumanity’s off-planet exodus, and that the bulk of
TITAN activity on Earth and around the system came
to a distinct halt. After the discovery of the Pandora
gates, it was widely assumed that the TITANs had
constructed these gates and used them to leave the
solar system for distant parts of the galaxy, presum-
ably taking billions of uploaded minds with them.
While some believe—and hope—that the TITANSs are
gone for good, there are others who worry that they
are still here, lingering on Earth and hidden away
in other niches of the solar system in some dormant
state, perhaps building up to a future onslaught. A
few believe that the TITANs are indeed gone, but are
concerned that their attention was simply temporarily
diverted and that they will one day return to finish the
destruction of transhumanity.

The truth is that the TITANs did indeed build the
gates and embark for destinations unknown (though
gamemasters may of course decide otherwise for their
games), but this does not mean that they are all gone.
Some still linger in hidden places, perhaps trapped and
wounded during some conflict during the Fall, finish-
ing up some unfathomable task, or driven mad by the
exsurgent virus and left behind by their fellows. It is
always possible that others may return, most likely
to complete some unfinished job or perhaps to lure
transhumanity out into the galaxy. It is also possible
that transhumans will find traces of the TITANs in


——————






















> GAME INFORMATION


381





SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


THE MESH


ACCELERATED FUTURE






REFERENCE








the network of exoplanet gates, perhaps even whole
communities of TITANs, pursuing whatever agendas
they have in the vastness of space.

As with transhumans, the TITANs are not necessar-
ily unified. They have different agendas and goals and
may very well come into conflict with one another.
Though all have been corrupted and subverted by the
exsurgent virus, and so they act according to the ETT’s
whims, some of them retain aspects of their original
minds and do not always fall in step as quickly as the
others. Gamemasters can use this to their advantage,
creating plots that allow the characters to exploit
differences between the TITANSs in order to escape
otherwise deadly or impossible situations.

In game terms, the TITANs are not given stats.
They are as potent as the gamemaster needs them to
be. Like the Prometheans, the TITANSs are incapable
of downloading their full intelligence into physical
morphs, though they may puppeteer morphs or create
limited delta forks for sleeving purposes. Like the
Prometheans, they should rarely be used or encoun-
tered directly by the player characters

While the TITANs may no longer be the direct
threat they once were, they left behind an arsenal of
weapons, nanoswarms, and viruses that still linger
on Earth, the.Zone on Mars, and various derelict
habitats and deserted places. Characters venturing
into such places may encounter these as a threat or
they may need to work against an outbreak of such
dangers in an inhabited habitat.


DEADLY MACHINES
The TITANs unleashed a number of deadly machines
during the Fall, many of which still seek out transhu-


mans to attack.


FRACTALS


Fractals are advanced bush robots. In their standard
form, fractals resemble a strange sort of metallic bush
surrounded with an eerie glittering haze. In their center


are a number of metallic branches, linked together
with a flexible joint. Each of these branches splits into
two or more smaller branches, also with flexible joints.
These branches also split, and then split again, and so
on down to the molecular scale. The tip of each fractal
branch ends in a nanoscale manipulator. Fractals are
deceptively potent adversaries, having the capability
to dismantle almost anything at the molecular level,
much like a disassembler nanoswarm (p. 329), and
also to rebuild anything just like a nanofabricator
(p. 327). Attacking them with projectiles is futile, as
they absorb the ammunition, break it down into its
constituent atoms or molecules, and then use those as
components to build a weapon to use against you.

Fractals can be equipped with any type of gear the
gamemaster desires—if they don’t have something,
they can make it. Fractals are also able to nanofab-
ricate items much more quickly than transhuman
nanofabricators; reduce all times by half (half an hour
per Cost category). Fractals are difficult to damage, as
their “bodies” are actually airy assemblages of fractal
branches. Any damaged branches that are broken off
are caught and absorbed by others. Reduce damage
from all standard non-area effect or spray attacks to
the minimum possible damage. Area effect and spray
weapons do half damage. Fractals are self-repairing,
regenerating damage at the rate of 1d10 points per
half hour and repairing wounds at the rate of 1 per
hour after all damage is healed.


30 Zp 30


| | | |

a A

1 =a) | Sal 50

Skills: Beam Weapons 50, Climbing 60, Fray 40, Free
Fall 40, Freerunning 50, Infiltration 70, Infosec 65,
Interfacing 45, Intimidation 50, Kinetic Weapons 60,
Perception 50, Programming: Nanofabrication 80,
Research 40, Spray Weapons 45, Unarmed Combat 55

Notes: Any implants, gear, weapons, or enhancements
the gamemaster desires





HEADHUNTERS


Headhunters are multi-legged insectoid flying drones
that use a dragonfly wing configuration to hover and
move. The legs are equipped with grasping claws
and extendable buzzsaws. Their primary purpose is
to grasp on to the heads of victims and cut through
the neck, decapitating them. Collected heads are then
flown to nearby special facilities for forced uploading.


COG el ole) INT REF SAV SOM WIL MOX
ieee
eee
Pes) Aa [Som


Mobility System: Winged (8/32)

Skills: Flight 70, Fray 60, Exotic Melee Weapon: Buzz-
saws 55, Infiltration 60, Investigation 40, Percep-
tion 40, Unarmed Combat 55

Notes: Armor 6/6, Buzzsaws (1d10 + 3 DV), Enhanced
Vision, Lidar, T-Ray Emitter


HUNTER-KILLERS


These lethal flying drones achieved air superiority





during TITAN military operations. Their sleek jet-
powered form unfolds for vectored-thrust hovering
and weapons deployment.


COG efoto) INT REF SAV SOM WIL MOX
aa
2 os
oe] Fm |)


Mobility System: Thrust Vector (8/80)

Skills: Beam Weapons 55, Flight 80, Fray 60, Infiltra-
tion 40, Kinetic Weapons 65, Perception 50, Seeker
Weapons 80

Notes: Armor 14/14, Anti-Glare, Chameleon Skin,
Enhanced Vision, Lidar, Radar, Shape-Adjusting

Typical Weapons: 2 Particle Beam Rifles, 2 Railgun
Machine Guns, 2 Seeker Rifles


WARBOTS


Warbots are massive, armored, vaguely anthropo-
morphic mecha, used for heavy combat operations.
Bipedal, these warbots are equipped with four arms
and a pair of grasping mechanical tentacles, along
with numerous weapon systems.


COG efoto) INT REF SAV SOM WIL MOX
is)
2 a
eas) en eee eos]


Mobility System: Walker (4/20)

Skills: Beam Weapons 60, Exotic Melee Weapon:
Tentacles 40, Fray 50, Infiltration 30, Kinetic
Weapons 70, Perception 50, Seeker Weapons 50,
Spray Weapons 50, Unarmed Combat 50

Notes: Armor 20/20, 360-Degree Vision, Anti-Glare,
Chameleon Skin, Chem Sniffer, Cyber Claws
(2d10 + 6 DV), Electrical Sense, Enhanced Vision,
Extra Limbs (6), Lidar, Magnetic System, Pneumatic
Limbs, Radar, Tentacles (prehensile, 1d10 + 6 DV),
T-Ray Emitter

Typical Weapons: Particle Beam Rifle, Plasma Rifle,
Pulser, Railgun Machine Gun, Seeker Rifle, Torch


ay





SELF-REPLICATING NANOSWARMS


The nanoswarms distributed by the TITANs are a step
beyond the nanotechnology available to transhumanity.
Unlike transhuman-created nanoswarms, the TITAN
swarms are autonomous, sapient, and self-replicating.
They are also highly adaptive, meaning they are not
single function but can modify themselves to perform
almost any nanoswarm task. They may also nano-
fabricate new materials, much like fractals (p. 383).
Combined, these capabilities make these nanoswarms
incredibly potent. When they encounter a new oppo-
nent, they can scan the opponent’s capabilities and
then fabricate offensive systems to use against them.
When an opponent deploys a weapon system on the
swarm, it will learn and adapt countermeasures that
will make such attacks ineffective against the swarm in
the future. These nanoswarms may also function like
so-called utility fog, linking together into a physical
lattice in order to create large-scale physical forms.

The possibilities for TITAN nanoswarms are almost
limitless. For example, they may lie in wait as an invis-
ible nanoscopic swarm, float as barely visible mist, or
shape into a swarm of small hopping drones to move
about. When facing opponents, the nanoswarm could
transform itself into a giant electroshock net across
the ground, shape into a flotilla of seeker-armed flying
drones, or link together as a set of massive whip-like
tentacles to slice through their fleshy foes. These
nanoswarms are nearly impossible to destroy, as only
a few nanobots need to survive in order to rebuild
the swarm, and the new swarm will learn from the
mistakes of the old.

Self-replicating nanoswarms follow the rules given
for Nanoswarms and Microswarms, p. 328, with the
following additions and exceptions:


e They do not need to be sustained by a hive and
do not deteriorate.

e They self-repair damage at the rate of 1d10 per
half hour.

e They may nanofabricate new items, materials,
or forms in half the standard timeframe (half an
hour per Cost category).

e They may replicate any of the nanoswarm func-
tions as noted on p. 328, as well as the functions
of any other nanoswarm-using gear (smart dust,
covert ops tool, repair spray, etc.).

e They may make SOM Tests.

e At the gamemaster’s discretion, they may adapt
new defenses against attacks used against them.
New defenses take a minimum of 2 hours to devise
and replicate throughout the swarm, after which
such an attack will inflict minimal or no damage.

e Assume they have any skill they need at a
minimum of 40. Such skills may rapidly improve
as needed.


COG ef oye) INT REF SAV SOM WIL MOX
Peal
=
[ae] ea [aa]





s%)
oS)


—
=
=e
=
==
—
[_
oe
[LJ
=
>
C5


















SYNOPSIS


s(


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE


NANOVIRUSES


The TITANs unleashed a number of biowar plagues
during the Fall. Similar to the exsurgent virus, these
were spread as biological nanoviruses (p. 363) or
nanoswarm plagues (p. 364)—use the same rules for
determining exposure and infection.


MELDER


This virus slowly breaks down the target’s body,
converting the biological materials into some sort of
biofilament that then meshes with implants, electron-
ics, and physical objects and structures. In effect, the
biological and synthetic are melded together, continu-
ing to expand and grow, consuming anything around
them into their growth. Victims suffer 1d10 DV and
1d10 SV every hour, implants become inoperable after
2 hours, and the target becomes fully transformed
and absorbed into the new melding substance after
12 hours.


METHSTASIZER


This sophisticated smart protein massively reprograms
the target’s cells to go rapidly, autocannibalistically
cancerous. After 2 + (SOM + 10, round up) hours, the
target suffers death by dozens of supercancers.


MECROTIZER


This virus breaks down the target’s cells into their
component proteins. Reduce the target’s aptitudes by
5 per hour as they slowly convert into a puddle of
sludge. The character dies if any aptitude reaches 0.


NEUROPATHS


These viruses target the victim’s neurological system,
often rewriting portions of it to inflict some type of
permanent neurological damage. After 12 hours, this
virus inflicts the Neural Damage trait (p. 150).


DETRIFIER


The petrifier virus transforms the target’s cells into
a simple molecular compound or element—typically
carbon or crystal. The target suffers 1d10 DV and —5
to all aptitudes per hour, dying when any aptitudes
reach 0. Victims are frozen in place, converted into an
nonliving statue.


UZUMAhI


The target of this virus begins suffering from bizarre
fleshy growths. After four hours, their body literally
erupts with meaty “vines” or “tentacles” that warp
into spiral patterns. This process inflicts 1d10 DV and
1d10 SV per hour to the victim until they eventually
transform into an unworldly expanse of fleshy growth.
In many cases, growth has continued long after a
character’s death, creating expansive carpets and vines
of skin and blood vessels, like some sort of bizarre
meat plant.





OAMEMASTERING
AND ADMINISTRATION


The following advice will assist gamemasters in
running their games more efficiently.


AWARDING REZ POINTS


In Eclipse Phase, characters earn Rez Points in order
to advance (see Character Advancement, p. 152). As
the name suggests, these points are awarded so players
can spend them to better define their characters—to
bring them into higher resolution, sharper focus. As
the gamemaster, you determine when and how many
Rez Points to award, following the guidelines below.

Rez Points should be awarded at the end of every
story arc, at the break in the action between one
adventure and the next. Depending on your style
of play and the length of your sessions, this should
roughly be every 3-6 gaming sessions. If a scenario
goes shorter or longer, the Rez Point awards should
be adjusted accordingly. In the case of long-term cam-
paigns, the gamemaster should break down the action
into digestible chunks, or “chapters,” and assign Rez
Points after each such segment.

Every character should be awarded 1 Rez Point for
each of the following criteria that is met:


e The character participated in that scenario.

e The character achieved (most of) their objectives
in that scenario.

e The character failed to meet their objectives, but
learned a valuable lesson.

e The character contributed to achieving success in
a significant way (e.g., right skill at the right time).

e The adventure was extra challenging.

e The character achieved a motivational goal (see
Motivations, p. 120).

e The player engaged in good roleplaying.

e The player significantly contributed to the ses-
sion’s drama, humor, or fun with roleplaying.


This should result in an average Rez Points
award of 4—7 points per character, per adventure.
Gamemasters who wish to drive the characters’
advancement forward more quickly can increase the
reward amounts.


REPUTATION GAIN AND LOSS


In addition to awarding Rez Points, the gamemaster
should also adjust each character’s Rep scores accord-
ing to actions they took during game play, according to
the guidelines below. For simplicity, these can be applied
at the end of the adventure, though gamemasters who
seek a more dynamic game could apply changes to the
characters’ Rep scores in game, as their peers judge
them according to their actions (or lack thereof) and
news about them in real time. Rep scores should only
be modified according to public actions and interactions
the character has with people capable of pinging their








Rep with positive or negative feedback. Actions that
happen in secret, without anyone ever knowing, should
have no effect. Likewise, pissing off a Factor or a brinker
isolate who never communicates with outsiders isn’t
going to matter because no one else will ever hear of it
(unless the character lifelogs it and posts it to the mesh
later ... ). Note that Rep modifications only apply to
Rep scores tied to the character’s known identity.

Characters may gain and lose Rep score in net-
works they don’t actively participate in. For example,
a character with r-rep of 0 may help bring out a
major scientific discovery that is shared with the solar
system’s scientific community at large, thus gaining
the character a few points of r-rep even though they
never hang out with argonauts or scientists—what
matters is that people who access r-rep will find posi-
tive details when they ping the person’s score on that
particular rep network.

Certain actions may result in a character simulta-
neously gaining Rep with one network while losing
Rep in another. For example, an anarchist prankster
who embarrasses a major hypercorp figure in public
will certainly gain some @-rep points, but their c-rep
is likely to go down by an equal amount.

Rep changes provide an excellent way for game-
masters to include more roleplaying and more interac-
tions with the Eclipse Phase universe in their games.
Social networks are a two-way street, meaning that
members of the character’s social networks might
contact them for equipment, favors, and information
during game play for things that are completely unre-
lated to the mission the character is on. A character
who ignores such requests risks losing Rep. Fulfilling
such requests may gain the character Rep and may
also provide comic relief or even plant some plot
hooks for the next scenario.


REPUTATION GAINS


Rep awards are given for characters who help people
out, benefit a faction, do something creative, make
a major discovery or strides in a particular area of
activity, pull off successful publicity stunts, win a
competition, and so on. Some suggested examples are
Mote mere:

Trivial Award (1-2 points): Do a Level 1 favor,
make a moderate contribution to free/open source
projects, throw a good party, make your sales quota,
do the job no one else wants to do.

Minor Award (3-4 points): Do a Level 2 favor,
deliver a kick-ass or moving performance, make a
minor contribution to science, win impressively at
some public event.

Moderate Award (5-6 points): Do a Level 3 favor,
make a serious business score, lead the winning side
in a decisive engagement, create the meme everyone
talks about for a week and then forgets, make the
news for something positive, risk serious injury.

Major Award (7-8 points): Do a Level 4 favor,
design the new tool everyone wants, throw an impres-
sive planetoid-scale event, complete an extensive


project (1 month work or 1 week of difficult/special-
ized work), risk death.

Extreme Award (9-10 points): Do a Level 5 favor,
start this year’s hot fashion trend, make a major
scientific discovery, close the deal on a major cor-
porate acquisition, start (or put down) a revolution,
complete a major project (1 year work or 1 month
difficult/specialized work), risk true death.


REPUTATION LOSSES


Rep losses are suffered by characters who fail to render
aid when needed, lose professional credibility, make
major or public blunders, doublecross their friends,
and so on. Some suggested examples are noted here:

Trivial Loss (—1 or —2 points): Fail to do a Level 1
favor, inconvenience others, be involved in profes-
sional dispute, ruin someone’s day, never are available.

Minor Loss (—3 or —4 points): Fail to do a Level 2
favor, embarrass yourself at a public event, piss off
somebody important.

Moderate Loss (—5 or -6 points): Fail to do a Level 3
favor, endanger someone’s physical safety, make the
news for something negative, ruin an event for everybody.

Major Loss (—7 or —8 points): Fail to do a Level 4
favor, screw up a major mission or activity, endanger
someone’s life, associate with hated rivals.

Extreme Loss (—9 or -10 points): Fail to do a Level 5
favor, botch a major mission or activity spectacularly,
betray a faction to its rivals or enemies.


BACKUPS. RECORD-KEEPING.
HID SAVE POINTS


Thanks to cortical stacks and archived backups, char-
acters in Eclipse Phase can recover from death. When
restoring a character from an earlier backup, however,
it is important to be able to know what the state of
the character was as of that backup. Any Rez Points
gained or spent, any character advancements made,
any key information or memories acquired since that
backup was made are lost. This means that in terms of
game stats, resorting to an old backup can mean loss
of a character’s hard-earned advancements—that’s the
trade-off for being effectively immortal.

Since these changes can have a serious effect on
game play, it’s important to conduct accurate record-
keeping. This sort of bookkeeping isn’t hard, and
there are two ways to do it. The first is to simply
make a copy of a the character’s record sheet any
time a character makes an archived backup, forks off
an alpha or beta copy, or dies (thus freezing the corti-
cal stack backup). Each of these is considered a “save
point.” In this case, carefully note the date and time
(both in character and out of character), and what
the event was that prompted the backup. Since what
knowledge a character knows at different points in
their life may be important, you may also want to
note what important information they may hold in
their head, as well as what the recent events in their
life were (to help jog your memory later). This way,
if the character ever reverts back to one of these save








—
=
=e
=
=
—
[LL
—
Ll
=
<—c
5


5%)
ol








SYNOPSIS


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


THE MESH


GAME INFORMATION








REFERENCE








eT ay


points, you have notes not only on their character
stats, but what they remember.

Alternately, you can keep a log of all of your
character’s developments, noted by in-character
date. These developments would include: Rez Points
spent or earned, character advancements made, key
information acquired, backups made, alpha or beta
forks made, and so on. In this case, if the character
dies and reverts back to an earlier backup, it is easy
to see what changes need to be “rolled back” to get
back to that previous version of the character. When
alpha and beta forks are made, you may also want to
branch off a separate log for each fork, as their life
stream may develop differently than from the original
character they were spun off from.


GAMEMASTERING PRACTICHLITIES


Eclipse Phase is a game about a dark future in which
the meaning of (trans)humanity and its very survival
are at stake. In practice, however, your campaign can
take on a wide assortment of flavors or even mix
several styles together. There’s nothing that says you
have to play Eclipse Phase specifically according to
the guidelines we set out. This section covers topics
you should think about while preparing a campaign
and running it, to help you do things the way that
makes you and your players happiest.


CAMEMASTER RESPONSIBILITIES


The gamemaster has certain responsibilities that will
keep a game flowing smoothly. The following is a
short summary of the basics.


e The gamemaster should be familiar with the
whole game. This doesn’t mean the rulebook











must be memorized. An understanding of the core
mechanics is a must, however, as well as knowing
where to find other rules quickly, as needed.

e The gamemaster should have solid notes on
the plots and subplots created for each session.
Nothing will ensure you prepare better next time
like having the players catch you in a major con-
tinuity error due to lack of notes.

e The gamemaster doesn’t just set the scene, they
play all the non-player characters that populate
the universe. Making each NPC convincing,
while not messing up a plot or losing the thread
of a scene, can be difficult. Notes are your friend.

e Know when it’s time to toss the dice and trust
to the game mechanics to resolve a situation and
when it’s better to ride out a situation through
storytelling and dialog. This is an acquired skill.
The more practice you have, the better you'll get.

e Don’t cheat. Your NPCs should not have access
to information they’ve not gained during game
play. If you roll terribly for your major antago-
nist at the height of the story and they fall with
a whimper, roll with it. Be flexible and improvise
in such situations. Your players are smart and
perceptive and will know when you’re forcing
a situation with unfair tactics. At the same time,
they’ll also know when you’ve stepped up and
run with the flow—and they’ll thank you for it.


FUNDAMENTALS


It’s possible to stumble into a campaign without ever
really making an effort to find out what everyone
wants, shooting into the darkness and happening to
score a bullseye, but it’s not a very reliable way to go.
Successful campaigns usually begin with communica-
tion. As you begin to prepare your campaign, talk to
your players. Explain the basics of the Eclipse Phase
setting and let them look over the options for charac-
ters and tell you what they find interesting. Also take
note of what they find uninteresting or even repellent,
so that nobody wastes a lot of time getting set for
options that simply won’t be enjoyable in play.


CHALLENGES TO PLAYERS


Eclipse Phase is set in a time of catastrophic troubles
and looming disasters, and it’s full of facts and
concepts that may be heady or even uncomfortable
to some players—not to mention their characters.
One of the fundamental questions for each gaming
group is, how much challenge to the players’ sense
of comfort is a good idea? There is no single answer,
because tastes vary. There are groups whose players
thrive on a diet of culture shock, ideological disori-
entation, gray areas, and difficult ethical choices.
They love the moral and intellectual battleground
gaming can provide, and are seldom so happy as
when confronted with a really hard, really interesting
dilemma. There are also groups whose players thrive
on a diet of intellectual engagement, tactical and
strategic challenge, and well-developed roleplaying








a












that never pushes players’ buttons or puts them into
harsh no-win situations. There’s a whole universe of
responses in between these styles of play and none
of them can conceivably be right for everyone. What
matters to your campaign is what works for you and
your players.

Keep in mind as you talk about it with your group
that more shock doesn’t equal more maturity. The
prime audience for gore in film, for instance, is not
well-aged men and women but teenage boys and
young men. Shakespeare’s The Tempest is no less
mature a tale than Macbeth even though it has a
happy ending. It can be easy to confuse endurance
with enlightenment, but in fact the two have nothing
to do with each other. Endurance is about how much
description of visceral nastiness the players can take
(and deliver), while enlightenment (insofar as it ever
happens in gaming) is about what insights players
take away from whatever it is that happened in
play. Don’t feel like a wimpy failure if you or your
players would rather keep the darker parts of the
game world suggested rather than delineated in
hard-edged detail, since the point is that it be satisfy-
ing rather than it be as horrifying or mind-blowing
as possible. The converse is also true: just as more
is not better, so less is not better if your players do
thrive on details. Your job as gamemaster includes
knowing as much as you can about what it is your
players actually prefer in this regard as in others and
seeing how you can satisfy it in ways that are also
satisfying for you.

That said, there is one technique you really should
never use without very clear permission from your
players, and that’s playing on their real-world fears
and phobias. If you know that one of them is, for
instance, genuinely phobic about spiders, you can
count on getting some real shivers by adding arachnid
features to robots and morphs. You can also ruin a
player’s enjoyment of the session or the whole cam-
paign that way, if it comes unexpectedly and leads
to the real-world fear drowning out the experience
of play. Some players are fine with judicious use of
their vulnerabilities, and others just aren’t. Under no
circumstances should you poke at weak spots without
making sure you’ve discussed it first.


Pe















THE PROBLEM OF SECRETS


Uncovering secrets is a big part of this game. There’s
a problem, however, in that a lot of the secrets are out
there where players can come across them: in this very
chapter, in reviews of the game, discussion in online
forums, and so on. As gamemaster, you will need to
decide how you want to deal with the potential for
spoiled revelations.

As with so many potential issues, the place to start
is with your players. Ask them how much it bothers
them to know things that their characters are going
to be finding out in play. Some players do a fine job
separating their own knowledge from that of their
characters with mental firewalls. Others have a very
difficult time doing so, and knowing things in advance
as players takes away a lot of the fun of character
discovery for them. In addition, some players have
a good sense of what degree of player-level surprise
works best for them, and some don’t. Discuss it with
them. Tell them that spoilers are available, and that
you certainly can’t stop them from learning it all, one
way or another. Ask them how much trouble this may
be for them, and then proceed from there. Ask the
players who have more trouble with spoilers to simply
stay away from early commentary on the game, and
tell them that you’ll let them know when the spoilers
have come into play in your own campaign so that
it’s no longer an issue. Ask the other players to work
with you in keeping things fresh and fun for those
players, too. In most groups, making it a matter of
cooperation for the sake of everyone’s good time will
draw out good responses. (If it doesn’t, the group may
well have other problems in any event.)

There’s a related question for both you and your
players. How much do any of you mind when a par-
ticular campaign’s version of an answer diverges from
the stock one provided in print? There are two kinds
of variation possible for this, and each one raises its
own issues.

There are matters that the game leaves unresolved,
so that there is no single authoritative answer, like the
number of TITANs in the solar system in the game’s
present moment. If you choose to give a specific
number, it’s your choice, and any number that seems
to work for your campaign will probably do the job,


















2 ee.








SYNOPSIS


THE MESH


WELCOME TO FIREWALL


A TIME OF ECLIPSE


GAME MECHANICS


CHARACTER CREATION


SAMPLE CHARACTERS


SKILLS


ACTIONS AND COMBAT


MIND HACKS


ACCELERATED FUTURE


GAME INFORMATION


REFERENCE





whether it’s one, three, seven, a dozen, or something
else. Your campaign can’t diverge from the baseline
unless your answer is relatively extreme, like “there
are no TITANs, it was all a hoax before contact with
the exsurgent virus and then purely alien technology
after that.” In this case, your players can have read
all the game’s secrets and still be surprised by the
revelation you present. The potential for trouble here
is not a conflict of expectations based on the game,
but based on expectations raised in other contexts.
Some games, like some movies, TV shows, and
other stories, develop a following with strong ideas
of its own about what the real truths and important
matters are, and if the following thrives, its members
may end up with ideas that have less and less to do
with the original inspiration. This isn’t good or bad in
itself, but it can be a problem, which is why it bears
conscious consideration and discussion, both before
play and as the campaign evolves. Ask your players to
tell you about conversations and insights that shape
their expectations for the game world and storylines.
Sometimes you’ll want to work those in with your
own plans, sometimes you may want to deliberately
play against them for the sake of a delightful surprise
(generally more delightful for players than characters,
but that’s life as a character for you). In either case,
it’s better to be thinking about it than missing it.

Then there are matters that the game does give
definite answers for, but which you wish to change
for the sake of your own campaign’s characters and
stories. This is perfectly fine. There are no game police
roaming the countryside and forcing you to accept
answers you’d prefer not to use. But your players
will, as with the first question, have expectations, and
your campaign will work better if you make sure you
understand what those expectations are. How much
would it bother them if it turned out there were no
TITANS and it was all a hoax, and so on? It’s hard to
guess what friends will say and impossible to predict
the range of responses strangers might give, so ask
them. (This particular answer is one that’s unlikely to
appear in anyone’s campaign, but it makes a handy
example for your conversational use precisely because
it’s extreme. So their answers to it are likely to be
about the same as to any other potentially extreme
change, and this one probably doesn’t give away any
of your own plans.) Some players are flexible on most
matters but have particular points of attachment;
if yours are among them, ask them to explain what
those points are for them, so that you can keep them
in mind. Other players have a hard time having fun
with any major shift from published standard answers,
and if you have players like that, you’ll want to know
it so that you can see how to adapt your plans to
work within that framework.


THAT 9 WHAT EM TALKING ABOUT:
SHARED INSPIRATION


It’s not quite true that everything changed from the





early 21“ century to Eclipse Phase’s universe, but a
great many things did, and it can be hard to keep track
of them all at once. This is where shared inspirations
can come in handy. One striking illustration can convey
a lot of details for both foreground and background,
suggesting an aesthetic standard for design, an exotic
environment, people doing futuristic tasks with appro-
priately advanced tools, and so on. A prose passage
from a rewarding novel may set an ambiance or nail
down some aspect of the characters’ circumstances.

There are potential pitfalls, and it’s important to
be aware of them. The greatest is obsolescence, the
meaning of something evocative changing because
the players’ reality has changed since the inspiration
entered it. William Gibson’s ground-breaking cyber-
punk novel Neuromancer begins, “The sky above
the port was the color of television, tuned to a dead
channel.” Supporting details make it clear that this is
an industrial port at night, the sky gray from pollu-
tion and flecked with ash and other debris. But that
was an image published in 1984. A decade and a half
later, Neil Gaiman pointed out that to his children,
the color of television tuned to a dead channel is
bright blue, thanks to ubiquitous cable delivery. In
another decade, the default color of a station not in
use may be something else entirely. The moral is that
it’s not enough to agree that an image is very striking.
You'll want to make sure that you all agree on what it
is about it that’s striking, to avoid a tangle of miscon-
ceptions that could derail play later on.

The References page (p. 394) offers a wide range
of immediately relevant inspirations, but it’s not the
final word on the subject. If the people in your group
have a long-time favorite space scene, or description
of life in the midst of a high-tech investigation, or
poetic glimpse of what it might feel like to modify the
body in ways not possible in real life, or something
else that’s stayed with them a long time and seems
like it might bear on your campaign, encourage them
to share. Remember to be courteous with each other’s
personal treasures, whether you end up using them
or not; there’s nothing like earned trust to encourage
more sharing.

Images can be particularly helpful for what they
convey about the world behind and around the
foreground events. For instance, think of a corridor
on a typical spaceship or habitat in Eclipse Phase.
Did you imagine it as being a standardized size and
shape, so that its counterparts elsewhere would be
very much the same or a more individualized work
intended for use just where it is without concern
for interchangeability? Did you imagine it as well
lit even when not in use, lit well when sensors show
people present and otherwise dim or dark, or perhaps
planned to be well lit but in practice haphazard and
unreliable thanks to lack of maintenance and funds?
Did you imagine its surfaces smooth and clean, with








equipment, maintenance bays, and the like all behind
hatches and covers, or was it cluttered and lumpy?
None of that matters all the time, but when it comes
to the investigation of a derelict, the hunt for someone
(or something) trying to hide, a race against time, or
other dramatic complication, these things could affect
your play, and rather than try to tally all possible con-
tingencies in advance, having some general-purpose
references can save everyone time and confusion.


THINGS THAT SHOULD NOT BE: HORROR


The universe of Eclipse Phase is a time of horrors
unleashed. Every character has had to come to some
personal accommodation with the existence of things
that offend our basic expectations of decency and
practicality all at once. Horror comes in many flavors,
and no one campaign can make use of all of them.

There are at least as many theories of horror as
there are people who create horror stories. Everything
here is necessarily a generalization. You and your
players can find exceptions to every single point in
it, and if you like the way those work better, go with
them. This discussion is intended to trigger ideas, not
to close off anything. That said, there are some useful
generalizations about horror, starting with an insight
expressed well by H.P. Lovecraft: “The oldest and
strongest emotion of mankind is fear, and the oldest
and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown.” All
horror can be thought of as built around encounters
with the unknown, beginning with the realization that
there is something unknown present, learning some-
thing about the scope of its nature and activities, and
then trying to respond one way or another.

In this game, the discovery part is half over. There’s
no question about the presence of the unknown.
Yes, there really are monsters beyond transhuman
understanding loose in the universe, and everyone in
the Eclipse Phase universe knows how bad and how
strange the TITANs could get. Many people also
have some idea of how exotic life on the far side of
the Pandora gates can be. There’s no room left for
characters to respond to some new strangeness with
confident skepticism, sure that they know the range of
what’s possible and plausible within transhuman expe-
rience anymore. Almost anything might exist, given the
facts of what’s already known. Instead, the question
for Eclipse Phase people facing a mystery is whether
this particular unknown will turn out to be simple
and straightforward to deal with, more complicated
but nonetheless a part of their routine lives like mal-
functioning machinery or a sabotaged and unusually
modified morph, or something beyond the normal like
a TITAN-programmed weapon or alien life. Sooner or
later, if they keep poking around, the characters can
count on running into all sorts of unknown and maybe
even unknowable challenges. Are they there yet?

Horror is seldom very far from humor. Humor
serves many roles in human psychology, and one of
them is helping us whittle down the mental “size” of
mysteries and threats to something we can deal with.


Furthermore, horror usually involves a balance of
improbable elements, with things lined up to go wrong
in interesting ways, and it doesn’t take much for a
particular rickety edifice to go from strange and men-
acing to ludicrous. When your players start laughing,
sometimes the best thing for you to do is to roll with
it. Laughter can do everyone good, supporting the
“play” part of roleplaying. In addition, some events
actually are funny or at least can be taken as funny,
even (sometimes especially) when most of what’s going
on is serious. On the other hand, if you really would
like to keep a scene serious and the players break
out in giggles, it’s often wise to go ahead and take a
break. Tell the players what you’re doing, too; trying
to deceive a group of your friends isn’t very reliable
and can backfire badly. Make the break long enough
for everyone to get the giggles out and then continue.

At the end of the day, through communication with
their players, the gamemaster will know how much
horror their group wishes to encounter. A group may
decide that they want to be 100 percent immersed
into the various horrors of Eclipse Phase. Another
group, however, may decide that while they enjoy
the meshed theme of horror with the other aspects
of Eclipse Phase, they don’t wish it to be a principal
element. In such a situation, horror would remain just
that, a theme, while the plots woven by the gamemas-
ter would spin around the myriad of other elements
that make up the game.


TRANSHUMANSM


Humanity has embraced transhumanism for survival,
harnessing science and technologies to catapult physi-
cal and mental faculties to super-human levels, while
eradicating involuntary death and enabling near
immortality through the digitization of consciousness
and the ability to transfer bodies at will. This is one of
the cornerstone themes of Eclipse Phase.

The technologies inherent to a transhuman future
raise many questions and ethical issues, however, and
these are some of the central themes that Eclipse
Phase seeks to explore. We encourage both gamemas-
ter and players to play around with the possibilities
and contradictions enabled in such a universe. How
do our mindsets change when death no longer looms
over us? What does identity mean when our bodies
are disposable and our personalities can be edited?
Are we the same person when we are revived from
a backup or sent off as a fork? Are technologies like
nanofabrication something to be feared and restricted,
even when they can eliminate poverty and greed?
How do we ensure public safety in a world where
technology makes weapons of mass destruction easily
available? How do ideas inherent to religious and
spiritual thought cope with AI, backups, or resleev-
ing? What does it mean to be an uplifted animal in a
society centered on humans? Who decides our future?
These are just a few of the issues that Eclipse Phase
raises, and many of them can be used as the central
theme for an entire campaign.





s%)
co


—
=
=e
=
==
—
[_,
=
[LJ]
=
>
C5








=


a





CHARACTER CREATION
SUMMARY


1. Define Character Concept (p. 130)
2. Choose Background (p. 131)
3. Choose Faction (p. 132)
4. Spend Free Points (p. 134)
a) 105 aptitude points
b) 1 Moxie
c) 5,000 credit
d) 50 Rep
e) Native tongue
5. Spend Customization Points (p. 135)
a) 1,000 CP to spend __
15 CP-=t-Moxie
_-——~ 10 CP = 1 aptitude point
5 CP = 1 psi sleight
5 CP = 1 specialization
2 CP = 1 skill point (61-80)
1 CP = 1 skill point (up to 60)
1 CP = 1,000 credit
1 CP = 10 rep
b) Active skill minimum: 400 CP
c) Knowledge skill minimum: 300 CP
d) Choose Starting Morph (pp. 136 and 139)
e) Choose Traits (pp. 136 and 145)
. Purchase Gear (p. 136)
. Choose Motivation (p. 137)
. Calculate Remaining Stats (p. 138)
. Detail the Character (p. 138)


‘Oo CO N O


MORPH COSTS (ALPHABETICAL)





TYPE CP COST
Arachnoid A5 Expensive (40k+)
Bouncer 40 Expensive
Case 5 Moderate
Dragonfly 20 High
Exalt 30 Expensive
Flat 0 High
Flexbot 20 Expensive (30k+)
“Fury 15 Expensive (40k+)
» Futura AO Expensive (50k+)
Ghost. 70 Expensive (40k+)
Hibernoid 25 Expensive
Infomorph = ge 0 0
Menton 40 Expensive
Neo-Avian ie a Expensive
Neo-Hominid 25 Expensive
Neotenic 25 Expensive
Novacrab 60 Expensive (30k+)
Octomorph 50 Expensive (30k+)
Olympian 40 Expensive
Pleasure Pod 20 High
Reaper 100 Expensive (50k+)
Remade 60 Expensive (40k+)
Ruster 25 Expensive
Slitheroid 40 Expensive
Splicer 10 High
Swarmanoid 2) Expensive
Sylph 40 Expensive
Synth 30 High
Worker Pod 20 High


BACKGROUNDS


Drifter: +10 Navigation skill, +20 Pilot:
Spacecraft skill, +10 Networking:
[Field] skill of your choice


Fall Evacuee: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft
skill, +10 Networking: [Field] skill of
your choice, +1 Moxie, only 2,500
Starting Credit (can still buy credit
with CP)

Hyperelite: +10 Protocol skill, +10,000
Credit, +20 Networking: Hypercorps
skill, may not start with flat, splicer,
or any pod, uplift, or synthetic
morphs

Infolife: +30 Interfacing skill,


oo —=-Eomputer skills (Infosec, Interfacing,


Programming, Research) bought
with Customization Points-are_half


price, Real World Naiveté trait, Socta—


Stigma (AGI) trait, may not purchase
Psi trait, Social skills bought with
Customization Points are double price


Isolate: +20 to two skills of your choice,
—10 starting Rep


Lost: +20 to two Knowledge skills of
your choice, Psi trait (Level 1), Mental
Disorder (choose two, this includes the
one from Psi) trait, Social Stigma (Lost)
trait, must start with Futura morph


Lunar Colonist: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft
skill, +10 to one Technical, Academic:
[Field], or Profession: [Field] skill
of your choice, +20 Networking:
Hypercorps skill


Martian: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft skill,
+10 to one Technical, Academic:
[Field], or Profession: [Field] skill
of your choice, +20 Networking:
Hypercorps skill


Original Space Colonist: +10 Pilot:
Spacecraft or Freefall skill, +10 to
a Technical, Academic: [Field], or
Profession: [Field] skill of your choice,
+20 to a Networking: [Field] skill of
your choice


Re-instantiated: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft
skill, +10 to a Networking: [Field]
skill of your choice, +2 Moxie, Edited
Memories trait, 0 Starting Credit (can
still buy credit with CP)


Scumborn: +10 Persuasion or Deception
skill, +10 Scrounging skill, +20
Networking: Autonomists skill


Uplift: +10 Fray skill, +10 Perception skill,
+20 to two Knowledge skills of your
choice, must choose an uplift morph
to start


GEAR COSTS

RANGE NYS ANC)
sel Cadi (CREDITS) (CREDITS)
Trivial 1-99 50
Low 100-499 250
Moderate 500-1,499 1,000
High 1,500-9,999 5,000
Expensive 10,000+ 20,000


FACTIONS


Anarchist: +10 to a skill of your choice,
+30 Networking: Autonomists skill


Argonaut: +10 to two Technical,
Academic: [Field], or Profession:
[Field] skills; +20 Networking:
Scientists


Barsoomian: +10 Freerunning, +10
to one skill of your choice, +20
Networking: Autonomists skill

Brinker: +10 Pilot: Spacecraft skill,
+10 to a skill of your choice,
+20 to a Networking: [Field] skill of
your choice

Criminal: +10 Intimidation skill, +30
Networking: Criminal skill

Extropian: +10 Persuasion skill, +20
Networking: Autonomists skill, +10


“~~ Networking: Hypercorps skill


Hypercorp: +10 Protocol skill, +20
Networking: Hypercorps skill, +10 to
any Networking: [Field] skill

Jovian: +10 to two weapon skills
of your choice, +10 Frayp+20
Networking: Hypercorps ski, must
start with a Flat or Splicer morph,


may not start with any nanoware Or
advanced nanotech ~


Lunar: +10 to one Language: [Field]
of your choice, +20 Networking:
Hypercorps skill, +10 Networking:
Ecologists skill


Mercurial: +10 to any two skills of your
choice, +20 to a Networking: [Field]
skill of your choice


Scum: +10 Freefall skill, +10 to a skill
of your choice, +20 Networking:
Autonomists skill


Socialite: +10 Persuasion skill, +10
Protocol skill, +20 Networking: Media
skill, may not start with flat, pod,
uplift, or synthetic morphs


Titanian: +10 to two Technical or
Academic skills of your choice, +20
Networking: Autonomists skill

Ultimate: +10 to two skills of your choice,
+20 to a Networking: [Field] skill of
your choice, may not start with Flat,
Splicer, uplift, or pod morphs


Venusian: +10 Pilot: Aircraft, +10
to one skill of your choice, +20
Networking: Hypercorps skill








CUSTOMIZATION POINTS

15 CP = 1 Moxie point

10 CP = 1 aptitude point
5 CP = 1 psi sleight





5 CP = 1 specialization

2 CP = 1 skill point (61-80)

1 CP = 1 skill point (up to 60)
1 CP = 1,000 credit

1 CP= 10 Rep


Trait and morph costs vary as noted.





SKILL LIST


LINKED
APTITUDE


LINKED


rahe NTU):


CATEGORY











Academics: [Field] COG Knowledge Investigation INT Active, Mental
Animal Handling SAV Active, Social Kinesics SAV Active, Social
Art: [Field] INT Knowledge Kinetic Weapons COO Active, Combat
Beam Weapons COO Active, Combat Language: [Field] INT Knowledge
Blades SOM Active, Combat Medicine: [Field] COG Active, Technical
Climbing SOM Active, Physical Navigation INT Active, Mental
Clubs SOM Active, Combat Networking: [Field] SAV Active, Social
Control WIL (no def) Active, Mental, Psi Palming COO Active, Physical
Deception SAV Active, Social Perception INT Active, Mental
Demolitions COG (no def) Active, Technical Persuasion SAV Active, Social
Disguise INT Active, Physical Pilot: [Field] REF Active, Vehicle
Exotic Melee Weapon: [Field] SOM Active, Combat Profession: [Field] COG Knowledge
Exotic Ranged Weapon: [Field] COO Active, Combat Programming COG (no def) — Active, Technical
Flight SOM Active, Physical Protocol SAV Active, Social
Fray REF Active, Combat Psi Assault WIL (no def) Active, Mental, Psi
Free Fall REF Active, Physical Psychosurgery INT Active, Technical
Freerunning SOM Active, Physical Research COG Active, Technical
Gunnery INT Active, Combat Scrounging INT Active, Mental
Hardware: [Field] COG Active, Technical Seeker Weapons COO Active, Combat
Pd Impersonation SAV Active, Social Sense INT (no def) Active, Mental, Psi
a Infiltration COO Active, Physical Spray Weapons COO Active, Combat
Ye Infosec COG (no def) — Active, Technical Swimming SOM Active, Physical
fo Interest: [Field] COG Knowledge Throwing Weapons COO Active, Combat
oa Interfacing COG Active, Technical Unarmed Combat SOM Active, Combat
| 145-152 Intimidation SAV Active, Social
TRAITS
POSITIVE TRAITS (Ga @ OY Is) NEGATIVE TRAITS CP COSTS
Adaptability 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) Addiction (Ego or Morph Trait) 5 (Minor), 10 (Moderate), or 20 (Major)
Allies 30 Aged (Morph Trait) 10
Ambidextrous 10 Bad Luck 30
Animal Empathy 5 Blacklisted 5 or 20
Brave 10 Black Mark 10 (Level 1), 20 (Level 2), or 30 (Level 3)
Common Sense 10 Combat Paralysis 20
Danger Sense 10 Edited Memories 10
Direction Sense 5 Enemy 10
Eidetic Memory (Ego or Morph Trait) 10 Feable 20
Exceptional Aptitude 20 Frail (Morph Trait) 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2)
Expert 10 Genetic Defect (Morph Trait) 10 or 20
Fast Learner 10 Identity Crisis 10
First Impression 10 Illiterate 10
Hyper Linguist 10 Immortality Blues 10
Improved Immune System (Morph Trait) 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) Implant Rejection (Morph Trait) 5 (Level 1) or 15 (Level 2)
Innocuous (Morph Trait) 10 Incompetent 10
Limber (Morph Trait) 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) Lemon (Morph Trait) 10
Math Wiz 10 Low Pain Tolerance (Ego or Morph Trait) 20
Natural Immunity (Morph Trait) 10 Mental Disorder 10
Pain Tolerance (Ego or Morph Trait) 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) Mild Allergy (Morph Trait) 5
Patron 30 Modified Behavior 5 (Level 1), 10 (Level 2), or 20 (Level 3)
Psi 20 (Level 1), 25 (Level 2) Morphing Disorder 10 (Level 1), 20 (Level 2), or 30 (Level 3)
Psi Chameleon (Ego or Morph Trait) 10 Neural Damage 10
Psi Defense (Ego or Morph Trait) 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) No Cortical Stack (Morph Trait) 10
Rapid Healer (Morph Trait) 10 Oblivious 10
Right At Home 10 On the Run 10
Second Skin 15 Psi Vulnerability (Ego or Morph Trait) 10
Situational Awareness 10 Real World Naiveté 10
Striking Looks (Morph Trait) 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) Severe Allergy (Morph Trait) 10 (uncommon) or 20 (common)
Tough (Morph Trait) 10 (Level 1), 20 (Level 2), or 30 (Level 3) Slow Learner 10
Zoosemiotics 5 Social Stigma (Ego or Morph Trait) 10
Timid 10
Unattractive (Morph Trait) 10 (Level 1), 20 (Level 2), 30 (Level 3)
Uncanny Valley (Morph Trait) 10
Unfit (Morph Trait) 10 (Level 1), 20 (Level 2)
VR Vertigo 10
Weak Immune System (Morph Trait) 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2)
Zero-G Nausea (Morph Trait) 10





MODIFIER SEVERITY


COMBAT SUMMARY ACTION TURN





itttat SEVERITY MODIFIER
¢ Combat is handled as an Opposed Test. Step 1: Roll Initiative ((INT + REF) + 5) + 1d10 Te eT
e Attacker rolls attack skill +/— modifiers. Step 2: Begin First Action Phase (Speed 1) Noda ay


e Melee: Defender rolls Fray or melee skill
+/— modifiers.

e Ranged: Defender rolls (Fray skill + 2
round down) +/— modifiers.


Step 3: Declare and Resolve Actions Major +/— 30
Step 4: Rotate and Repeat (Speed 2-4)


SCATTER DIAGRAM TEST DIFFICULTY


DIFFICULTY LEVEL MODIFIER










e If attacker succeeds and rolls higher than
the defender, the attack hits. A Effortless +30
e Critical hits are armor-defeating (armor Ve 10r2 a ne a
does not apply) 10 3 Average +0
e Armor is reduced by the attack’s Armor Difficult —10
Penetration-value (AP). Challenging =







Hard





e weapon's damage is reduced by the
target’s modified Armor rating (unless
the attack is armor-defeating).

e If the damage exceeds the target's bs
Wound Threshold, a wound is also scored.

(If the damage exceeds the Wound
Threshold by multiple factors, multiple
wounds are inflicted.)


COMPLEMENTARY SKILL BONUS
RUIN MODIFIER


COMBAT MODIFIERS


GENERAL MODIFIER


WEAPON RANGES (IN METERS)









Character using off-hand —20
SHORT MEDIUM Ke) Te} EXTREME Character wounded/traumatized ~10 per wound/trauma “s
WEAPON (TYPE) RANGE RANGE (-10) RANGE (-20) RANGE (-30) Character has superior position +20 ie
Firearms Touch-only attack +20 ‘
Light Pistol 0-10 11-25 26-40 41-60 Called shot | —10
Medium Pistol 0-10 11-30 31-50 51-70 Character wielding two-handed weapon with one hand —20
Heavy Pistol 0-10 11-35 36-60 61-80 Small target (child-sized) —10
SMG 0-30 31-80 81=195 126-230 Very small target (mouse or insect) —30
Assault Rifle 0-150 151-250 251-500 501-900 Large target (car sized) +10
Sniper Rifle 0-180 181-400 401-1,100 —_1,100-2,300 Very large target (side of a barn) _ +30
Machine Gun 0-100 101-400 401-1,000  1,001-2,000 Visibility impaired (minor: glare, light smoke, dim light) -—10
Railguns Visibility impaired (major: heavy smoke, dark) =20
as Firearms but increase the effective range in each category by +50% Blind attack =30
Bearn Weapons
Cybernetic Hand Laser 0-30 31-80 Sia i25 126=230 Character has reach advantage +10
Laser Pulser 0-30 31-100 101-150 151-250 Character charging =i)
Microwave Agonizer o=5 o=15 16-30 31-50 Character receiving a charge +20
Particle Beam Bolter 0-30 31-100 101-150 151-300
Plasma Rifle 0-20 21-30 21-100 101-300 Attacker using smartlink or laser sight +10
Stunner 0-10 11-25 26-40 41-60 elon behndicotar 10
Seekers = Attacker running —20
Seeker Micromissile 5-70 71-180 181-600 601—2,000 Attacker in melee combat wey
Seeker Minimissile 5-150 151-300 301-1,000 —_1,001—3,000 Defender has minor cover 10
Seeker Standard Missile 5-300 301-1,000 1001-3,000 3001-10,000 Defender has moderate cover “96
. Spray Weapons Defender has major cover -30
Buzzer 0-5 6-15 16-30 31-50 Defender prone and far (10+ meters) —10
Freezer 0-5 6-15 16-30 31-50 Defender hidden 60
Shard Pistol 0-10 11-30 31-50 51-70 Aimed shot (quick) 410
Shredder 0-10 11-40 41-70 71-100 Aimed shot (complex) +30 f
Sprayer 0-5 6-15 16-30 31-50 Sweeping fire with beam weapon +10 on second shot 4
Torch 0-5 6-15 16-30 Shea) Multiple targets in same Action Phase —20 per additional target AY
Vortex Ring Gun 0-5 6-15 16-30 31-50 Indirect fire =e)
Thrown Weapons Point-blank range (2 meters or less) +10
Blades To SOM +5 To SOM = 2 To SOM To SOM x 2 Short range =
Minigrenades To SOM + 2 To SOM io SOM 27) TesOMx3 Medium range —10
Standard Grenades To SOM +5 To SOM = 2 To SOM To SOM x 3. ~~" Long range 0)
Extreme range —30


HEALING





CHARACTER SITUATION DAN V PANG] sama] AVM INCH VANE WOUND HEALING RATE
Character without basic biomods 1d10 (5) per day 1 per week
Character with basic biomods 1d10 (5) per 12 hours 1 per 3 days
Character using nanobandage 1d10 (5) per 2 hours 1 per day


1d10 (5) per 1 hour
double timeframe
triple timeframe


1 per 12 hours
double timeframe
no wound healing


Character with medichines
Poor conditions (bad food, not enough rest/heavy activity, poor shelter and/or sanitation)
Harsh conditions (insufficient food, no rest/strenuous activity, little or no shelter and/or sanitation)


THE HACKING SEQUENCE


Tasks
1. Defeat the Firewall
2. Bypass Active Security
a. Hacker Wins with Excellent Success, Defender Fails
b. Hacker Succeeds, Defender Fails
c. Both Succeed
d. Defender Succeeds, Hacker Fails


ONLINE SEARCHES


1. Common data = automatic acquisition
2. Uncommon data:


a. Research Task Test (timeframe: 1 minute) modified by —-——-~


data obscurity to accumulate data _s

b. Measure of Success determines depth-of data found
3. Analyzing data: ee

a. Research Task Test (timeframe: GM call) using

complementary skiJlt6 understand data


P


a





Ep


F


| MESH GEAR MODIFIERS





MODIFIER SOFTWARE/HARDWARE


Bashed-up devices, no-longer-supported software, relics from


“ee Earth or the early expansion into space
=20 Malfunctioning/inferior devices, buggy software, pre-Fall technology
—10 Outdated and low quality systems
0 Standard ectos, mesh inserts, and software
+10 High-quality goods, standard security-grade products
+20 Next-generation devices, advanced software
+30 Newly-developed, state-of-the-art, top-of-the-line technology


TITANs and/or alien technology





SUBVERSION DIFFICULTIES


Difficulty modifiers for common computer tasks


MODIFIER TASK
Execute commands, view restricted information, run restricted
—(0) software, open/close connections to other systems, read/write/copy/


delete files, access sensor feeds, access slaved devices


=10 Change system settings, alter logs/restricted files
—20 Interfere with system operations, alter sensor/AR input
—30 Shut system down, lockout user/muse, launch countermeasures at others


COUNTERMEASURES


Passive Alert (-10 modifier to intruders)





~ Locate Intruder: Opposed Infosec Test; if successful, intruder becomes Locked


Re-authenticate Users: Next Action Turn, intruder must make Infosec Test to
log in again


Reduce Privileges: Limit user access privileges; see p. 246





Active Alert (-20 modifier to intruders)


Counterintrusion: If Trace (see below) is successful, launch intrusion attempt
on intruder's home system


Lockout: Opposed Infosec Test; if successful, intruder dumped from system.


Reboot/Shutdown: Takes 1 Action Turn to 1 minute (GM discretion); all users
ejected from system.


Trace: Trace intruder to home system with a Research Test (—30 if in privacy mode)


Wireless Termination: At end of Action Turn, all wireless connections termi-
nated; wireless users ejected.


Results
Infosec Task Action (10 minutes)

Variable Opposed Infosec Test

Hidden Status/Admin Privileges/+30 to all Subversion Tests (p. 256)
Covert Status (p. 256)

Spotted Status/Passive Alert/-10 to all Subversion Tests (p. 256)
Locked Status/Active Alert/-20 to all Subversion Tests (p. 257)


=




















SUBVERSION EXAMPLES


In addition to the tasks noted under the Subversion Difficulties table,
these modifiers present some additional example actions.


MOD TASK


Hacking


=
—10
=IK)
—30





—0
=|)
—20
—30


—0


0
—20





Bots/Vehicles
Give orders to drones


Alter sensor system parameters, disable sensors or weapon systems
Alter smartlink input, send false data to Al or teleoperator


Lockout Al or teleoperator, seize control via puppet sock


Hacking Ectos/Mesh Inserts


Interact with entoptics, befriend everyone in range, make online purchases using
user's credit, intercept communications, log activity

Alter social network profile/status, adjust AR filters, tweak sensory interface,
change AR skin, change avatar, access VPN

Block or shuffle senses, inject AR illusions, spoof commands to drones/slaved
devices


Boot user out of AR


Open/close doors, stop/start elevators, operate intercom


Adjust temperature/lighting, disable safety warnings, replace entoptic skin, lock
doors, switch traffic timers

Disable subsystems (plumbing, recycling, etc.), disable wireless links, dispatch
repair crews


Override safety cutoffs


Hacking Security Systems


Move/manipulate cameras/sensors, locate security systems/guards/bots
Adjust patterns of sensor sweeps, view security logs, disable weapon systems
Delete security logs, dispatch security teams


Disable alerts


Hacking Simulspace Systems


View current status of simulspace, simulmorphs, and accessing egos


Change domain rules, add cheats, alter parameters of story, alter simulmorphs,
change time dilation


Eject simulmorph, alter/erase character Als


Abort simulation


Hacking Spimes


Get status report, use device functions
Adjust Al/voice personality settings, adjust timed operation schedule


Disable sensors, disable device functions


Hacking Simulspaces From Within


Analyze simulation parameters, view domain rules, shape appearance of simul-
morph, switch simulmorph character or morph type

Change probability of test outcomes, become invisible

(“out-game”) to others

Interfere with simulation (e.g. make it rain, generate earthquakes), generate items,
ignore domain rules, kill or lockout other simulmorphs


Go into god mode, command simulated characters, take over the sim
